Budget 2014: Aam aadmi has no big reason to cheer

Finance Minister, P Chidambaram began his speech by saying, “whether it is a regular budget for the full year or an interim budget, some things remain the same” . However, unlike a regular budget that usually gives a few big reason for the common man to cheer, the Vote-on-Account was rather cold.

No change in income tax

As expected, there were no changes made on the income tax rates. However, the Finance Minister appealed to all political parties to resolve and pass the GST Laws and the Direct Tax Code in 2014-15.

"The Vote on Account presented by the FM was on expected lines. But the non-removal of one year income-tax surcharge on individual assesses was surprising and disappointment,” says Dinesh Kanabar, Deputy CEO, KPMG.

However, this is not the final for this assessment year. A full budget post-election may be more populist in this regard and offer some concessions. “Clearly, with the elections round the corner, the current proposals will be viewed as an interim one and their true impact will be felt when these are incorporated in the final budget,” adds Kanabar.

Cheaper cars and consumer durables

The excise duty on small cars, bikes, scooters and commercial vehicles excise duty reduced from 12% to 8%, while the segment sedan segment (large and medium cars) saw a cut in exercise duty from 24-27% to 24-20%. Excise duty on SUVs has been decreased from 30% to 24%. “The car price will go down from a minimum of Rs 16,000 to Rs 17,000 for small cars to a Rs 1,80,000 for mid segment SUVs,” says Sachin Menon, National Head - Indirect Tax, KPMG.

The downside is that the current relief is up to June 2014. “The benefit may not be available to goods which are already cleared from factory. The goods cleared between now and June 14 will get the benefit and hopefully thereafter if the new government extend the concessions. The demand will see a rise from April, if the manufacturers pass on the benefit to the consumers.

Imported vehicle will show immediate rise in demand as the CVD component will go down,” adds Menon. The concession benefit will be coupled with cascading effect of VAT (12.5%) on the excise duty which means 4% benefit will be 4.5%.

* Expect 4% to be passed on to consumers; Source: Prabhudas Lilladher

The excise duty on consumer durables such as TV sets, Refrigerator, Air Conditioners has also been cut from 12% to 10%. "These excise changes will approximately cover 40% to 50% of the Indian manufacturing industry. In this small window of four months, that is till elections, the industry may try and push the product to avail the reduced excise duty and consequently there may be a spike in the manufacturing activity," Menon.

Housing

Apart from a small mention about the land acquisition bill and allocating Rs 2000 crore to the Urban Housing Fund for affordable housing, not much was said on the housing sector.

"The support extended to the residential sector in the affordable segment is positive, and will hopefully help revive construction activity beyond the leading 3-4 metropolitan cities. We expect more developers to enter into the budget homes segment in order to take advantage of tax incentives, and also the greater demand-supply mismatch there." Anuj Puri, Chairman & Country Head, Jones Lang LaSalle India.

However, the bigger issues-lack of transparency and fair dealing-that has been rouging the sector for quite some time and were to be addressed by the Real Estate Regulatory Bill, did not find any mention in the FM's speech.

Your Savings and Investments

The FM has suggested creating one record for all financial assets of every individual. However, Chidambaram did not elaborate on how he plans to execute it.

Keeping a physical record of the humongous number of investments is just not pragmatic and prone to inaccuracies and misdeeds. So experts are saying this could be a bigger step towards dematerialization. “We have a very low penetration of financial assets. Higher household savings goes into physical assets, which don’t have any national market driven valuation indices as yet, making it a challenge to gauge the nature of non-food inflation and, therefore, coming up with monetary measures to manage inflation. So, dematerialization would be good, especially now that it has a common ‘Aadhar’ linking in multiple investments,” says Robin Roy, Associate Director - Financial Services, PwC India.

Sameer Gupta, Tax Partner, Financial Services, EY India, says it is a reform needed for a unified agency in the context of jurisdictional tussle witnessed among various regulators who police a range of financial products,” says.

The Financial Sector Legislative Reforms Commission (FSLRC) had recommended that the Securities and Exchange Board of India, (SEBI) the Forward Markets Commission (FMC), the Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (IRDA) and the Pension Fund Regulatory and Development Authority (PFRDA) should be merged into a new unified agency UFRA.

“Even while the UFRA set-up is awaited, creating one record for all financial assets seems to be step to create asset record transparency and eventually on creation of the UFRA should yield consistent treatment in consumer protection,” adds Gupta.

Another agenda raised by the FM is to enable smoother clearing and settlement for international investors looking to invest in Indian bonds.

The Finance Minister also promised implementation of ‘One-Rank-One-Pension’ from 2014-15. The Government has allocated Rs. 500 crores to the Pension scheme. The Finance Minister said, “The demand of the defence services for One-Rank-One-Pension (OROP) had been there for a long time and had been an emotive issue. The Government had decided to walk the last mile and close the gap for all retirees in all ranks.”

