UPA government wants to unilaterally impose AP division, alleges Naidu
MUMBAI: Flaying the UPA government for its "unilateral" decision on Andhra Pradesh bifurcation, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) president N Chandrababu Naidu today said the Congress is not in a position to convince its members on the tumultuous issue of "equal justice" for people of Telangana as well as Seemandhra.

The TDP leader was speaking to reporters after meeting Shiv Sena president Uddhav Thackeray at the latter's residence Matoshree in suburban Bandra.

"With the consent of the states only, we have to work for the progress of the people, or otherwise there will be no federalism and there will be a problem for the national integrity also," Naidu said.

"That is how our forefathers have written in the Constitution. India is a mature democracy, the biggest democracy. The Centre has to take states into confidence. It is doing all these things in violation (of the Constitution) and this is not correct," he said.

"That is why I came here to request him (Uddhav). TDP is very clear from the beginning. The party was started for promotion of Telugu people. Just like Shiv Sena, TDP is also concerned about Telugu people, to promote their self respect," Naidu said.
"By this bifurcation, they (Centre) have to satisfy both the regions. If they have to take Telangana, they have to convince Seemandhra people. If they have to keep (the state) united, they have to convince Telangana people," he said.

There was "match fixing" between Congress, YSR Congress Chief Jagan Mohan Reddy and the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) on the issue, Naidu alleged.

There are corruption cases against Jagan Mohan Reddy, Naidu said. "He was in jail," he added.

"Without consulting, unilaterally, they (Centre) want to impose these things sitting at Delhi and this is what we are opposing," Naidu said.

"That is why we are seeking Shiv Sena support. That is why I came here," he said.

"Congress created this problem. Their own ministers are opposing (the bifurcation). If you are not in a position to convince your own party MLAs or MPs, how can you move forward," he said.

"I have been demanding an amicable solution acceptable to both the regions," Naidu said.

"That is why we are seeking Shiv Sena support. That is why I came here," he said.

"Congress created this problem. Their own ministers are opposing (the bifurcation). If you are not in a position to convince your own party MLAs or MPs, how can you move forward," he said.

"I have been demanding an amicable solution acceptable to both the regions," Naidu said.

"Now they have created a national crisis. For the last six months Parliament is not functioning," he said.

Sena President Uddhav Thackeray said, "Naidu has explained his stance in detail. The Sena also has the same view. We have always opposed the Congress policy of divide and rule."

"The Centre has started this fight between Telugu people. The fight has escalated to such an extent that there is fear that there will be division of minds," Uddhav said.

