SP will play crucial role in govt formation at Centre: Mulayam Singh Yadav

LUCKNOW: Hinting at the formation of a Third Front, SP supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav today said his party will play a big role in forming the government in Delhi after the Lok Sabha polls.

"We have already won Uttar Pradesh. Now it's time for Delhi. The Samajwadi Party will play a big role in forming the government at the Centre.

"Once we had ruled Delhi, but the government didn't last then because leaders of various parties could not work in tandem. We have to ensure that this time the government works," he said kicking off the party's cycle yatra in Uttar Pradesh.

Asking partymen to exercise restraint while working towards the goal of capturing power at the Centre, he said, "If somebody as part of a conspiracy tries to instigate you during the cycle yatras, just smile, tolerate it and move forward.

"Last time you had come on cycles to form government in the state which has been achieved... This time around I am confident that you will have an important role to play in the government formation at the Centre", Yadav told partymen.

"Once before we had taken out a cycle rally in a disciplined manner which was praised by everyone...This time around if we work properly, people of Lucknow would also extend support to the party like in the Vidhan Sabha polls and it (the party) could win the Lucknow Lok Sabha seat," he said.

In an apparent dig at Gujarat Chief Minister Narendra Modi, the SP chief said the UP government has in the form of schemes and programmes already given to its people more than the budget of Gujarat.

Speaking on the occasion, Chief Minister Akhilesh Yadav rued that though the achievements of the SP government were more, it lagged in propagating them.

"Last time SP workers had come on cycles to remove the government which had put up statues and spoiled the state", he said asking workers to propagate the government's achievements at the booth level.

"The coming elections are that of netaji (Mulayam Singh)... Samajwadis would not get such an opportunity again and they can show their strength in Delhi", he said while cautioning workers against the conspiracies of the opponents.

The week-long cycle rally, which will highlight the SP government's achievements, would cover all Vidhan Sabha seats.
