Vote on Account 2014: Scrapping state monopoly over coal a priority for next government

Renewed political authority will endow the government that assumes office after the forthcoming Lok Sabha polls with the ability to act decisively to address some of the economy's long-running problems, regardless of which party or coalition gets to form the government. Of these, the most crucial one is abolishing state monopoly in coal and breaking up Coal India so as to allow its subsidiaries to function as independent, competitive coal companies. An associated requirement is to build new rail links from potential coal mines in the hinterland to the existing rail network, so that newly mined coal can be evacuated.

Right now, paucity of coal constrains the Indian economy in multiple ways.

Three major groups of benefits accrue from abolishing state monopoly in coal: more power would be generated, power would reach rural areas, transforming India's economic structure and India's current account deficit would shrink by the extent of coal imports.

At present, shortage of coal leads to anything between 40,000 and 50,000 MW of installed power generation capacity lying idle. This starves the economy of power, makes some added new capacity unviable, leading to build up of bad debt on banks' books and making them cut further lending to infrastructure.

The government programme to bring electricity to rural India has, even if after missing multiple deadlines, finally succeeded in laying power lines to 5.9 lakh villages out of India's total of some 6.3 lakh villages. But power still does not flow along these lines, because of absent generation, due to paucity of coal. Once power starts getting delivered to rural areas, there would be multiple benefits.

One, the government can immediately abolish the subsidy on kerosene. The entire justification for subsidising kerosene has been that kerosene is the primary source of lighting for lakhs of villages without electricity. Once you supply power to rural areas, lighting can switch to LEDs. Kerosene subsidy is upwards of Rs 30,000 crore a year.

Two, there would be other savings for the economy, which would be much bigger. Subsidised kerosene is widely used to adulterate diesel, and once the price of kerosene becomes roughly equal to the price of diesel, adulteration would come to and end. Huge savings will emerge in the form of lower air pollution and avoided downtime due to illness and avoided healthcare costs. An added benefit would be longer engine life for freight fleets.

Three, once rural areas get steady, reliable power supply, inflation in India would come down. Consumer price inflation is close to double digits essentially thanks to high food inflation. Fresh fruit, vegetables, eggs, poultry, milk, meat, fish and lentils together constitute superior foods. The demand for superior foods goes up when people move out of poverty and acquire additional purchasing power, as they have been at an accelerated pace over the last decade.However, increasing the production of perishable foods depends on availability of climate controlled storage and good roads connecting rural areas to urban consuming centres. Under various schemes of the government, rural road building has accomplished quite a lot. Now, if rural power becomes a reality, a cold chain can quickly be built to make sure that higher production of superior foods would translate into higher revenues for farmers, instead of depressing local prices, as would happen if the additional output cannot be moved out of the locality for consumption elsewhere.

Further, rural power availability will allow new agro-processing industries to come up in rural areas, further accelerating India's structural transformation away from low-value farming and raising rural living standards.

And a substantial further gain to be derived from abolishing the seventies vintage state monopoly in coal mining and trading is avoiding costly imports of thermal coal (coking coal for the steel industry would, in any case, need to be imported, as India doesn't have enough of the stuff). This adds $10 billion upwards to India's import bill. This is a wholly avoidable element of our current account deficit, forced upon the economy because of the state monopoly's inability to mine coal fast enough to meet domestic demand.

At present, imported coal is significantly more expensive than domestic coal and this raises the cost of power at generating plants dependent on imported coal for fuel.

Finally, it is the state monopoly in coal that is at the root of the coal scam. Since the monopoly is incapable of producing all the coal demanded by the economy, the Coal Mines Nationalisation Act of 1973 was amended to allow allocation of captive coal mines to producers of cement, steel and power.

Since allocation of captive coal mines is a joint operation by the central government and the state government where the mine is located, politicians and babus love the policy of captive mines. The CAG said that, by not holding auctions, the allocation of coal mines via a screening committee resulted in undue benefit worth Rs 186,000 crore accruing to assorted companies.

The CAG was smart in suggesting that the scam was undue benefit flowing to favoured companies, rather than the exchequer incurring any loss. After all, the exchequer gets money in the form of royalty and tax on profits, regardless of who mines the coal. So, it does not lose money by the identity of the mining lease beneficiary shifting from X to Y.

Still the CAG was fundamentally mistaken when it said that undue benefit accrued from not following auctions. Now, auctions are a method for allocating mines among alternate claimants. But undue benefit flows from the very idea of giving anyone a captive mine. If you don't have a captive mine, you have to buy coal from the market at a price. Not having to pay this price is the undue benefit that arises from a policy of captive coal mines. Regardless of the manner of allocation, any recipient of a captive mine gets undue benefit.

In leasing mines that contain billions of dollars worth of minerals, the auction parameter cannot be the value of the minerals that the bidder would pay the government upfront. Bidders offer to pay a share of the revenue, or profit. Our oil fields are auctioned on the basis of the profit petroleum a bidder is willing to pay the government. Otherwise, the cost of the coal mined would be so expensive as to make the power generated by burning it unaffordable. Such a share already accrues to the government, in the form of royalty and tax on profits. The government can fix the royalty at a reasonably high level to generate decent revenues from mining. Auctions will not substantially add to the revenue, except at the risk of the mined mineral turning uneconomically expensive.
So, the coal scam lies in state monopoly in coal that not only prevents India's abundant reserves from being tapped to meet the country's requirement but also keeps domestic coal prices repressed, at a steep discount to import prices, so that the recipient of a captive mine stands to make windfall profits.

By scrapping state monopoly, the new government could do away with future coal scams as well.

With so many multifarious benefits to be harvested, scrapping state monopoly over coal becomes a priority for the next government.