Lok Sabha polls 2014: Modi promises to change Assam situation

BISWANATH CHARIALI (ASSAM): Promising to change the Assam situation, Narendra Modi today assured voting rights to migrants from Bangladesh and restoring their honour, while holding "political blunders" responsible for their plight.

He also trained his guns at UPA Chairperson Sonia Gandhi, accusing her of doubting the patriotism of 125 crore citizens of India and misleading them on "so-called fulfilment of Congress poll promises".

"They (Cong) have not given voting rights to Indian citizens (in Assam). They have given it to people who come in from Bangladesh. Around two lakh such people are there in camps. Our dream is to give them rights. The Hindus who have come from Bangladesh are refugees. They are here because of their compulsions," Modi said during a public meeting.

"They have come here due to our political blunders. So it is our responsibility to give them respect and security. It is not that only Assam should take up this burden but the entire country should do it. We cannot push them out of the country," Modi said.

"Sonia came to Assam yesterday and 'deshbhakti ke dhol peet rahe the'(beating the drums of patriotism). Do the poor and others have to learn about patriotism from Congress and Soniaji?", Modi asked.

"Will Soniaji now give certificates to 125 crore people on patriotism? Do we have to take tuitions from you (Sonia) on this. It is an insult to us to raise such an allegation'', he added.

"Soniaji, now that you have opened your mouth on such a sensitive issue, you have to give an answer to the people. The nation wants an answer. Don't dare to question the patriotism of the people and insult them", he said.

Sonia claimed yesterday in Assam that she does not indulge in "big talk" while the Congress makes no false promises and they promise what they can do.

Attacking the Congress for indulging in "vote bank politics", Modi said Assam has been ruined due to this and people working in the tea gardens too have the right to a good life.

"You bring a BJP government in Delhi and we will ensure that every poor will have a house. There will be no poor in this country who will not have shelter over their heads," Modi said.
