Narendra Modi is 'vikaspurush' for only Adanis and Ambanis: Arvind Kejriwal

KUTCH: Escalating his attack against BJP's Prime Ministerial candidate Narendra Modi over his development claims, AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal today said he is "vikaspurush" (development man) only for industrialists.

"Modi is a vikaspurush, but only for Adanis and Ambanis," Kejriwal, who is in Gujarat to "inspect" development claims made by Modi, said after meeting farmers in Mundra taluka where Adani Port and Special Economic zone (SEZ) is located.

"Big industries in a nexus with government started acquiring lands, he alleged, while adding that "it seems that the entire land of Gujarat is on sale."

"Industries have earned so much black money that they will flee to Switzerland any day," he further alleged.

"Through media he (Modi) conspires a propaganda of development. But have you heard voices of content here? People are only talking about their agony," Kejriwal said.

The former Delhi chief minister also met Sikh farmers in Abdasa earlier and told them, "Gujarat government does not want to give Sikh farmers their land."

"Gujarat government froze their land in 2010, they approached court and have hired big lawyers so that Sikh farmers remained deprived of their land," he said.

Prithvi Singh, a farmers' representative, said, "We put our issue before Kejriwal regarding anti-farmers' policy of the state. He assured us that he will raise our issue, though we know model code of conduct has come into effect, anyone cannot do anything."

"We have given many representations to the state government but it didn't help us, instead Modi is fighting till the Supreme Court," Singh said.

"In this political scenario, we have some hope from AAP and Kejriwal," he added.

Kejriwal also met fishermen representatives and tried to visit a hospital in Bhuj, but could not reach there due to protests by a mob shouting pro-Modi slogans.

Yesterday, Kejriwal was briefly "detained" in Radhanpur and his car damaged in an attack by alleged BJP workers Kutch.