Aam Aadmi Party projects an image which is unreal: BJP

NEW DELHI: BJP today accused the Aam Aadmi Party of projecting an image which is a "complete mismatch" with reality.

BJP leader Arun Jaitley claimed that AAP was pretending to be what it was not by adopting a strategy intended to cultivate a particular image through "friendly and collusive interviews".

"This clearly shows the party and its leader pretending to be what they are not. They project the image of themselves which is unreal. Between reality and projection there is a complete mismatch. When 'punya' (virtue) meets 'paap' (sin), you don't expect a conspiracy," he said in reaction to a video in circulation on YouTube purportedly showing an interview of Arvind Kejriwal in which he is strategising on what to be highlighted.

Jaitley said the video shows Kejriwal in close conversation with the anchor of a news channel after the interview recording on possible emphasis and strategy as to which parts are to be highlighted and play down those which may cost the AAP leader middle class support.

"We have never been fortunate to be extended such a privilege by any anchor or media organisation. Friendly and collusive interviews intended to cultivate a particular image are a strategy of AAP," he said.

The BJP leader said the media honeymoon of AAP seems to be over as it is now willing to put the party to a serious scrutiny as any other political party despite its extensively reporting activities.

He said excessive media coverage to the party had made AAP as the "television opponent" of BJP even when the "field opponent" continued to be Congress.

The Leader of Opposition in Rajya Sabha said a large number of people converge around a party who they consider is a potential winner and there are less claimants of a party which is considered a possible loser.

Terming as unprecedented when candidates decline party nominations after they are publicly announced, he said, "This only happens when candidates find that the prospects of winning are non-existent."

He referred to the Congress candidate from Bhind in Madhya Pradesh deciding to refuse the party nomination and join BJP instead.

He also referred to Chandigarh where AAP claimed to have a sizeable support but its candidate decided to return the party nomination since its cadre in a disarray and she felt there was lack of organisational support for her election.