New Nagpur Congress chief Vikas Thakre vows to stay away from factionalism

NAGPUR: The newly-appointed Nagpur city Congress chief Vikas Thakre said that he would ensure that the party works as a united force in the upcoming Lok Sabha as well as Assembly elections.

"The grassroots workers are the party's strength. The network is strong and spread in every nook and corner. My job is only to channelise their energies and mobilise them for the coming elections, and stay away from groupism," Thakre told his first press conference, here today.

He was named the city party chief last week.

"I do not believe there are groups and factions. We are one as a party. I will ensure that this unity works in the coming Lok Sabha and Assembly elections this year," asserted Thakre, former city mayor.

Asked if he would quit from the post of Leader of Opposition in BJP ruled Nagpur Municipal Corporation (NMC), he said the Maharashtra Pradesh Congress Committee (MPCC) will be initiating a process of finding his successor and only if asked by the PCC, he would step down.

Thakre, who is considered to be close to city MP Vilas Muttmemwar said, "In the next 15 days I will assess the capacity and work interest of the existing office-bearers. If some of them want to opt out and those not found to be active could be removed. I will not remove anyone who is doing good work. But if more capable replacements are found, I will not mind forming a new executive body."

"I am a party worker and try to contribute in my new capacity as city unit head. In the next few days I will request the guardian minister, Nagpur Improvement trustees, ministers from the region to dedicate one day each for the party and be present at party office at Devadia Bhavan to hear public grievances.

The city MP Vilas Muttemwar, would also be urged to take up issues related to the central government offices.

"The party workers would be encouraged to take up people's problems like obtaining documents from city survey office, to attend to problems related to civic amenities. This way we would reach out to the people," said Thakre.

He also assured that he would remain in the post not more than three years.