Third front a ‘coalition of contradictions’, but limits alliance options for Congress & BJP

When the AB Vajpayee-led ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) suffered a surprise defeat in the India Shining-powered Lok Sabha polls in 2004, it took a while for many BJP leaders to put in perspective the reasons for the Congress upsetting their apple cart. Their eventual conclusion was that the NDA didn’t lose because of a governance deficit but because it fell short on the alliance front — it lost to a Congress that had managed to stitch together a larger and superior coalition of parties to form the United Progressive Alliance (UPA).

A decade on, with general elections due in a couple of months, midnight oil is being burnt in the war rooms of both the NDA and the UPA in the quest for those potentially game-changing partnerships. Yet, as the BJP unleashes its Narendra Modi plank to try and create a national saffron wave, a section of party leaders is hoping that this time around the Modi factor may make alliances less of an imperative. The flip side of course is that Modi’s limited ability to attract allies in the first place gives the NDA few choices but to prop him up as virtually their sole trump card.

Coalition of Contradictions

To be sure, as against the over 20 allies with which the NDA went into the general elections of 1999, in 2014, the coalition is set to go to the polls with just half a dozen allies. These include the Shiv Sena, Akali Dal, Telugu Desam Party, Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam and either the Indian National Lok Dal or the Haryana Janhit Party, amongst others. The BJP now reckons that Modi’s limited reach in mopping up allies can be compensated by tapping UPA’s anti-incumbency burdens.

“The Congress-led UPA rule has resulted in a series of corruption scandals, rising inflation, decline in economic growth and all-round mis-governance. All these will be issues for the BJP-led NDA and the people of India in this Lok Sabha polls,” says BJP spokesperson Meenakshi Lekhi.

Modi, for his part, has been doing his bit to woo back many parties (don’t forget it was his projection as PM candidate that made the BJP’s oldest ally, the Janata Dal United or JD [U], walk out). Those on the woo-list included Trinamool Congress, Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), Biju Janata Dal (BJD), AIADMK and Jharkhand Vikas Morcha-Prajatantrik ( JVM-P). A bid was also made to woo Maharashtra Navnirman Sena.

Last week, the failure of Modi’s mission in bringing these parties into the fold became official when the AIADMK, BJD, AGP, JVM (P) along with JD(U) and four Left parties formed a Third Front-like bloc with the intention of fighting the Lok Sabha polls. This assortment may look impressive on paper but the reality is these parties are limited to their respective states and, therefore, do not help to complement each other’s votes. The Left, for its part, is a mere skeleton of its original self.

Post-poll Blues

Yet, the coming together of these parties has created one more headache for both the UPA and the NDA; the latter has anyway to also worry about the Arvind Kejriwal-led Aam Aadmi Party playing spoiler in urban centres; now it has to reckon with another alternative to the UPA for voters. “Our non-Congress, non-BJP front will provide the alternative for voters who are unhappy with both the parties,” says JD (U) president Sharad Yadav.


While some of these regional parties hope to form a Third Front government with outside Congress support, others who treat the Third Front platform just as a pre-poll parking lot could go either with the Congress or BJP post-polls. What no senior BJP leader will admit in public is that the emergence of this third alternative has also prompted many conflicting interests within the saffron camp to make their own post-poll calculations.

If Modi’s ambition of becoming PM has to play out, BJP has to cross its own best record of 182 Lok Sabha seats and touch the 200 mark to form the government with the help of allies. But if the BJP’s tally dips below 170, the lack of pre-poll allies will open up the possibility of a more acceptable (to allies) BJP leader emerging as PM candidate.

The beleaguered Congress meantime is pulling out all stops on the alliance front — in Bihar it is trying to create a formidable partnership along with Lalu Prasad Yadav’s RJD and Ram Vilas Paswan’s LJP; in Tamil Nadu it is trying hard to persuade Karunanidhi’s DMK and Vijayakanth’s DMDK to ink a three-way pact; in Andhra, the Congress would rather split the state to save half of its seats in Telangana in company of TRS; in Maharashtra despite bickering the Congress and Sharad Pawar’s NCP will likely go it together; and in Jharkhand it has the JMM and the UDF partners in Kerala as allies.

The worst kept secret in Delhi is that the Congress is still working hard to try and ink a pact with Mayawati in UP. “Politics is an expression of possibilities and those possibilities change with the passage of time. Let us wait for a while,” says Congress leader Randip Singh Surjewala. To paraphrase Bismarck, alliances — making and breaking them — are the art of the possible.

