Sushma Swaraj re-invents herself in a party dominated by Narendra Modi

NEW DELHI: “When you thank Soniamma for Telangana, don’t forget this chinnamma too,” said Opposition leader Sushma Swaraj , while allowing the passage of the bill to create Telangana state in the Lok Sabha. It reflected the perception that Swaraj may not be getting enough credit for things done in a fractious house. As leader of the Opposition, she had argued against her mentor LK Advani and insisted that the Bill should be cleared on February 18 itself.

Her role in the Telangana episode reflects Swaraj’s, something she has worked hard to establish. But this has also meant that the strident speechifying tends to obscure the delicate strategy that seen her evolve while maintaining her stature in the party. Although regarded as one of the better speakers, she has allowed the shrill rhetoric of her public utterances to overshadow the nuanced balancing act she has been managing for sometime within BJP to remain within the charmed circle of the parliamentary board, the only woman in what is still a very patriachal parivar.

Swaraj has had a remarkable career — including youngest ever Cabinet minister (at 25 in Devi Lal’s cabinet) — but she’s also had to deal with myths and misconceptions that have persistently dogged: In 2005, when RSS was desperately looking for a new BJP president, Swaraj was often ruled out by the media for being a socialist during the Emergency and only later joining the BJP. Hence the RSS indoctrination, so required for a BJP leader, was absent from her grooming, went the argument. She didn’t get the job eventually, but this had nothing to do with her supposed political antecedents.

Apart from her father having been a prominent RSS member, Swaraj had in fact been an active member of the ABVP when she was studying law and had even campaigned for Arun Jaitley when he contested for president of the Delhi University Students Union in 1974.

Her husband Swaraj Kaushal was the one with the socialist connections and their mutual interest in anti-Congress politics made them part of George Fernandes’s legal defence team in 1975 when the latter was arrested for organising one of the biggest strikes. “Since the two of them had to travel together for the purpose, their then law professor, and former chief justice of India AS Anand, suggested that they might as well marry,” said an alumnus of Punjab University. Another misconception has to do with her attitude toward the lunatic fringe of the parivar. Actually. she is dead against it.

While she has acquired a big bindi and sindoor and celebrates karva chauth with disconcerting enthusiasm, she was trenchant in her criticism of the Sri Ram Sena’s style of vigilante moral policing. She referred to daughter Bansuri, studying law at Inner Temple in the UK, and said that while she doesn’t drink, she may frequent pubs with friends. The kind of vigilantism shown by the Sene would get her support.

But in the public mind, Swaraj is identified as the strident Sonia Gandhi baiter, who took on her in Bellary and then threatened in 2004 to shave her head if her rival ever became PM. As Opposition Leader she’s sought to tone down that shrewish image. In this, perhaps she is trying to emulate Atal Bihari Vajpayee, who managed to command affection from a wide section of Indians despite BJP’s politics. In the past five years, she has also dispelled the myth of being an intimidating leader with low tolerance for juniors.

Of the 58 first-time BJP MPs elected to the 15th Lok Sabha, 46 got a chance to speak during debates under her leadership. As the BJP heads into an election where it seems to have a good chance of emerging as the biggest party, some of those who were important in the Vajpayee-Advani dispensation are no longer relevant in the Narendra Modi-dominated universe. But Swaraj has managed to stay the re-invention course, a first among equals in a male-centric party.

She offered some insight into the equations in the BJP: “My relation with Nitinji or with Arunji is not that of giving instructions. We can give suggestions to each other, we can talk over issues. But it’s not that somebody will give instructions to me. That is not the relationship."

