General elections 2014: BJP fails to get cinestars to take on Priya Dutt

MUMBAI: Vinod Khanna, Anupam Kher, Nana Patekar and Hema Malini had a visitor in the last few days. It was not any film director wanting to cast them in a movie, but a member of BJP's Mumbai unit, asking if they were willing to contest the Mumbai North Central seat against Congress' Priya Dutt.

Dutt has been representing the constituency since 2004 and BJP is desperate to defeat her in the Congress stronghold. During the last election, it fielded lawyer Mahesh Jethmalani. Despite an SP candidate contesting, Dutt won by a margin of 1.75 lakh votes. Her margin even in 2004 was around the same.

BJP's view that a film star was best to defeat Dutt saw its Mumbai unit approaching Vinod Khanna, who won Punjab's Gurdaspur seat for the party four times. Khanna declined to contest saying he had very good relations with the Dutt family. The party also approached Anupam Kher, who gave the same reason for declining. Hema Malini too declined the offer.

BJP then decided that it would approach someone who had not bothered to maintain cordial relations with the Dutt family - Nana Patekar, who had criticised the 'lenient treatment' given to Priya Dutt's brother Sanjay Dutt in the Mumbai blast case. However, Patekar too rejected BJP's offer saying he was not interested in politics.

When contacted, Hema Malini denied such an incident took place, while Kher said he "has not been approached by any political party to contest." Patekar declined to answer ET's query and Khanna could not be contacted.

However, a senior BJP leader confirmed the development. "The list of film stars that we had approached is too long. Most of them said that since Priya is Sanjay Dutt's sister, they would not like to contest against her."

Another senior BJP leader had a different take. He said all those who approached may have refused the offer as they knew it would be a tough contest. "A margin of 1.75 lakh votes is not something that can be easily erased. Which is why they are not willing to contest," the senior BJP leader said.

With no star power, BJP has shortlisted Mumbai unit president Ashish Shelar and businessman Mohit Khamboj, while Salman Khan will be Priya Dutt's star campaigner.
