Kapil Sibal challenges Arvind Kejriwal's corruption charge; says he will quit politics if proven corrupt

NEW DELHI: A day after Arvind Kejriwal put his name on a list of corrupt politicians, Union minister Kapil Sibal today shot back, saying the Delhi Chief Minister should prove his allegations within two days or resign.

"I was surprised that a person who is holding the post of Chief Minister has levelled an allegation against me. His intentions appear to be malafide, otherwise he would not have levelled such baseless allegations.

"I am surprised that he dubbed me as corrupt. I give him two days to hand me the proof of my corruption otherwise he should resign from his position," Sibal told reporters here.

The Law Minister said if Kejriwal is able to prove his allegations, then he would resign as a union minister and also quit politics.

"I have already warned him and I say it today also. No one has so far made allegations against me about my public life. There are no complaints against me. There are no FIRs. If he is able to prove that I have been convicted by a court in a corruption case, I will not only resign as minister, but also quit active politics," he said.

Kejriwal on Friday drew a list of "corrupt" politicians against whom AAP has decided to field candidates.

The list included Rahul Gandhi, several UPA ministers, SP supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav, BSP chief Mayawati, Union Ministers P Chidambaram and Sushilkumar Shinde and former BJP president Nitin Gadkari.

Congress chief Sonia Gandhi is accused of propagating dynastic politics and BJP's Prime Ministerial canndidate Narendra Modi, whose name also figures in the list, faces the allegation of criminalisation of politics.

A few months ago, AAP had alleged that Sibal has a "conflict of interest" in the case involving Vodafone as his lawyer son Amit "continues to defend" Hutchison, which had a partnership with the British telecom major.

Amit had denied the allegations, saying the last time he had appeared for the company was in 2010 when Sibal was neither the Telecom minister nor the Law Minister.
