Narendra Modi's pitch for co-operatives rattles UP sugar barons

NEW DELHI: Sugar barons in Uttar Pradesh are rattled by Narendra Modi's call to give a better deal for farmers and his preference for co-operatives instead of private firms.

Addressing a big rally at Meerut, the largest cane belt in the state, Modi condemned the state's policies for cane farmers and said co-operative mills in Gujarat are better off than private millers in UP. Gujarat's 16 co-operative mills produced 11 lakh tonne of sugar while 122 mills in UP produced 7.4 million tonne in 2012-13. Cane price in UP is Rs 280 per quintal while in Gujarat it is Rs 260 per quintal and increases to Rs 310 per quintal during the peak supply season.

Millers are worried. "We have always been a victim of political motives. Cane price has increased to unviable levels because no government wants to fail the farmer's interest. But it's not the farmers who are crying over cane price but the politicians are," said a senior executive with one of the largest sugar mills in India.

As per the estimates of Indian Sugar Mills Association (ISMA), UP sugar industry faced a loss of Rs 3,000 crore in 2012-13 owing to high cane price and declining sugar prices. Cane price arrears in the state currently stand at Rs 4,600 crore. ISMA has also estimated the cane arrears in the state to go up to Rs 12,000 crore by April.

Mills in Gujarat are also facing losses due to declining sugar prices. "After the decontrol of the sugar industry, the price of sugar has been going down. At a cane price of Rs 300 per quintal, millers are unable to make profit," said a member of Gujarat State Co-operative Mills Federation.

Cane farmers in Gujarat run sugar mills and most of them haven't paid their taxes in wake of losses incurred due to low sugar price. These defaulters have also been issued a notice from the Income Tax department, said a Gujarat-based sugar trader. Modi, however, lamented on the poor condition of UP cane farmers. "If you see the condition of the sugarcane farmers here, one feels bad. They can't even earn enough for food. Mills are not getting cane and mills are not working," said Modi.

"Cane farmers in UP are getting a return of around 90% on their crop, which is the highest for any crop and area in the country, hence they don't need any more higher price or empowerment. Policy issues are to be blamed for the poor status of the mills," said Tejinder Narang, commodity expert.

An industry expert said private mills have been there in UP since the inception of the industry and Modi should make comparisons on co-operative model of working with agriculture minister's stronghold state - Maharashtra. Modi had also stated that had Chaudhary Charan Singh and Mahendra Singh Tikait been there, they could have done something for the farmers.

Market experts have already pressed the panic button for the UP sugar industry. "Cane acreage hasn't gone up from past three years in the state. By 2015-16, sugar industry could suffer a drastic slide with decrease in sugar production and cane farm acreage," said a research analyst with a Delhi based agri-commodity market research firm.

"It's a mockery of the only surviving agro-based industry in the state. It would be no surprise, if sugar industry suffers the same fate as the textile industry in the state - complete washout due to political tug of war and no policy impetus," said a senior executive with a UP based sugar mill fearing that a possible shut of the Rs 35,000 crore industry owing to mounting cane arrears and losses is also staring in their faces.
