Congress sharpens attack on Narendra Modi in a change of strategy

NEW DELHI: Rahul Gandhi’s aggressive tone in his interview to PTI is being read as a signal that the Congress party and its allies are going on the attack against the Bharatiya Janata Party and its prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi, particularly over his role in the Gujarat riots of 2002.

Gandhi is also trying to shake off the adverse reviews he got for a less-than inspiring performance during his Times Now interview in January. Also, with Arvind Kejriwal and the Aam Aadmi Party maintaining a highpitched anti-Modi barrage, there is a sense that the Muslim vote could veer towards them.

Besides that, Kejriwal is set to put his money where his mouth is, in a manner of speaking, having expressed his readiness to contest against Modi in Varanasi. Still, senior BJP leader Arun Jaitley hitting back at Gandhi in the midst of Holi festivities shows the importance that the party attaches to the Congress vice-president’s onslaught.

Observers noted that Gandhi seems to be trying to erase the image he conveyed in the TV interview of someone fumbling through a predetermined script, while avoiding any direct attacks on Modi. On Modi’s alleged role during the Gujarat riots, Gandhi demanded “legal accountability” in his PTI interview for the “clear and inexcusable failure of governance” and dismissed talk of a clean chit to the chief minister as “politically expedient” but “far too premature”.

Contending that Modi was answerable on moral grounds, the Congress party’s chief campaigner said, “Beyond that, there should be legal accountability for the clear and inexcusable failure of governance under him.” He also questioned Modi being absolved by the special investigation team.

“As you know, the SIT report was seriously questioned by a number of credible experts. Grave flaws have been pointed out in the functioning of the SIT. The acceptance of the flawed SIT report by the lowest court has not yet been subjected to judicial scrutiny by higher courts,” he told PTI.

Senior Congress leaders confirmed to ET that there had been a rethink on the campaign strategy and that it needs to go after Modi hard. The leadership feels that this aggression will help Congress sustain the tempo of electioneering for the rest of the campaign. Senior party seniors told Gandhi that he needed to introduce “sharp political content” in his poll discourse, said one leader.

“Rahulji’s last interview to a TV channel was a disappointment, especially for the lack of political focus,” an All India Congress Committee official told ET.

“During the past one month, many senior Congress leaders have made it clear that the time has come to take Modi head on. And that the Congress, as the leading secular party, should position itself as the national secular coalition anchor against Modi and his communal politics.” This seems evident, especially given Gandhi’s comment in his interview that the Congress would be ready to form “a secular government with likeminded parties” .

The Congress is calculating that the “Modi factor” could be a common ground for the party to rally others against the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance, or NDA.

The fact that Gandhi’s interview came just a day after Modi’s candidature from Varanasi was announced explains its political timing. The 2002 riots resonate as a critical electoral issue with Congress rivals that are not part of the BJP camp.
 
“Forget about politics. This nation will continue to seek an explanation on the role of Modi and his government during riots,” said CPI leader D Raja when asked about Gandhi’s comments.

The Congress also said Gandhi’s aggression may have been aimed at checking the impression that the party , under attack over corruption and economic mismanagement by the United Progressive Alliance, is on the defensive and that the Modi-led NDA is making steady gains. Gandhi’s latest interview coincides with some opinion polls putting the Congress way behind the BJP and NDA.

Jaitley was scathing in his response to Gandhi’s comments that the Congress would surpass its current tally in the Lok Sabha and that the UPA will form the next government.

“Faced with odds, Rahul has decided to talk up the morale of his party,” Jaitley said. “He claims that opinion polls are jokes and that the Congress would improve upon its 2009 tally. If this is sheer bravado in order to lift the sinking morale of the Congressman , it is understandable. However, if he genuinely believes this to be true, then surely he is completely cut off from reality.”

But the Congress is also worried about the AAP factor, which cut sharply into its support base in the Delhi assembly elections. It wants to protect against any further erosion as much as possible.

“We would like AAP to be a competitor for the BJP in dividing the anti-incumbency vote against the UPA, not a competitor for the Congress in dividing the anti-Modi and anti-BJP votes,” said one leader. Gandhi also allowed a personal question , playing up a side of himself that could endear him to some voters. When’s he getting married, he was asked — a question that all Indian mothers put to their unmarried sons.

“This is a question that comes all the time, all the time. Right now I am engaged in fighting the elections . Unfortunately, I have not been focused on private life,” he said, adding, “When I find the right girl, I will get married.”

Time for Course Correction

Observers note that Gandhi seems to be trying to erase the image he conveyed in the TIMES NOW interview of someone fumbling and also avoiding direct attacks on Modi Cong leadership feels that the aggression will help it sustain the tempo of electioneering for the rest of the campaign .

Party seniors told Gandhi that he needed to introduce “sharp political content” in his poll discourse

The move is likely to help the Cong , as the leading secular party, position itself as the national secular coalition anchor against Modi and this will rally others against the BJP-led NDA But the Congress is also worried about the AAP factor , which cut sharply into its support base in the Delhi assembly elections and it wants the nascent party to divide the anti-incumbency vote going the BJP way
