To check Narendra Modi wave, Congress may field Ghulam Nabi Azad from Udhampur

SRINAGAR: In order to prevent a cakewalk for BJP, the Congress High Command is considering fielding Health Minister Ghulam Nabi Azad from Udhampur. The decision is being taken in wake of the assessment that only Azad can wrest this seat from the BJP.

Although Azad is reluctant to contest, his immediate preoccupation is his electoral involvement in Kerala, Lakshadweep, Pondicherry and Tamil Nadu to have 41 seats. Despite his engagement elsewhere, party leaders in the state have been pleading him to contest.

While the party leaders have failed to convince Azad, they have been able to convince the party high command that his fielding is the only way out from reducing BJP's presence from two to one seat.

Party sources said the high command will announce the decision only after consulting Azad.

Insiders suggest the assessment that makes Azad a wining candidate is based on the fact that he has a high profile, has remained Chief Minister of the state and will be able to consolidate most of the Muslim vote besides getting a section of the Hindu vote that otherwise would go to BJP. Udhampur-Doda region has mixed population and if the voters consolidate on basis of faith, Muslims voters can wrest the seat.

The other factor, that is key to the victory, is the difficulty in making National Conference (NC) cadres vote for Congress's Lal Singh, who represented the seat twice, so far. At one stage, NC had suggested Congress to change their candidate because he has not performed well in the region. Both NC and Congress have serious performance issues with Singh.

Azad's candidature will impact groups within BJP as well. The party is currently divided to settle the issue between Dr Nirmal Singh, BJP's last runner up in the Lok Sabha election from Udhampur, and Dr Jetender Singh Rana, who is the official candidate for 2014 elections. Dr Nirmal has been protesting against not getting the mandate again. But sources close to him said he will surrender his claim over the mandate if Congress fields Azad.

The most prominent 'survivor' from the 'Sanjay Gandhi boys', Azad had left the state after he failed to win the Inderwal Assembly seat in 1977. However, he won 1980 and 1985 elections from Washim (Maharashtra). In 1990, he was elected to Rajya Sabha from Maharashtra and in 1996, National Conference nominated him to the Upper House. He helped Congress to become a major political force in the state in 2002 when it allied with PDP. Azad replaced Mufti Sayeed as the Chief Minister after three years but the coalition fell under its own weight in 2008 summer. Azad was re-elected to Rajya Sabha in February 2009.

If Congress High Command convinces Azad, it will be the first time he will contest for a Lok Sabha seat in J&K.

Congress insiders said Azad's reluctance owed more to a polarized region than his keenness to stay in power through Rajya Sabha.