General elections 2014: IT rallies behind Narendra Modi to keep BJP's ear to ground

NEW DELHI: As Narendra Modi storms through India in his 185-rally blitz before votes are cast in the general election, the Bharatiya Janata Party is using a combination of information technology and feet on the ground to accurately gauge the mood of the electorate and make sure its message is getting through.

At every Modi meeting, an army of volunteers combs through the crowd, gathering feedback, profiling attendees and making a headcount. Later the party’s IT cell collates all the data.

“A Modi rally is a 360-degree thing. While it is being held on the ground, it is also webcast and is made available live on the mobile. If news channels are interested, they also show it live,” IT cell convenor Arvind Gupta told ET. The party also reaches out in small ways to participants.

“A thank you card, the size of a visiting card, is given to each person who attends the rally,” said a party official. “This helps us reach out to the people while also making the person feel involved with the BJP.”

The party has harnessed power of IT in a big way, using it as a kind of force multiplier through a network of around 12 lakh volunteers looking to spread message of leaders like Modi and provide feedback from voters through person-to-person contact.

The volunteers range from simple folk in small towns to young engineers and management degree holders besides groups such as Citizens for Accountable Governance (CAG) that back the party.

Conceptualised and managed by the IT cell, the programme is aimed at collecting and collating all data such as the response to prime ministerial candidate Modi’s rallies and details of party programmes to micro-level issues like poll-booth management.

The volunteers receive directions from the leadership through the IT cell’s call centre on their mobiles, the Internet or landline phones. “This is a project which has been organised online for BJP’s success offline,” Gupta, who spearheads the project, told ET. This project is aimed at making the party’s campaign organised and strategically sound,” Gupta said.

It was the late Pramod Mahajan who got the BJP to use the latest technology to reach out to the electorate. In 2004, the party used the mobile network to propagate the message of the Prime Minister at the time through “Main Atal Bihari Vajpayee bol raha hoon” calls to voters. To be sure, that didn’t stop the party from losing the election.

The far more complex IT strategies in play now were set in motion almost four years ago.

Gupta, the man at the helm of the project, has taken the programme from inception to “culmination stage”. He did his B. Tech from the Indian Institute of Technology, Benaras Hindu University, and has a doctorate from the US on analytics and data collection.

The cell uses special software, finetuned over the last one year, which helps it get feedback for the rallies addressed by Modi -- including the size of the crowd, response and involvement of the spectators -- and other party events.
 
IT cell teams edit and post videos of Modi’s appearances soon after he finishes his address. BJP has a strong social media presence and its young volunteers keep a close watch on the response in the virtual world to a Modi programme or an issue involving the party and its top leaders.

Gupta and his team are aware that not all sections of the electorate are tech-savvy and that mobile and landlines are still the best bet. “Not every volunteer has a smartphone or knows how to operate one. Moreover, some volunteers may not have easy access to the internet,” Gupta said.

The IT cell call centre handles the contact management system used for reaching out to party volunteers and supporters. “We have a missed call service where the person making the missed call is contacted and informed about party programmes and other campaign issues,” a party functionary said, adding that the questions posed by the volunteers are also dealt with through this mechanism.

The party also sends SMS directions to volunteers on their mobiles through the IT cell. “The BJP worker and volunteer also feels empowered when he is involved in the programme,” a party leader said.

The feedback from the ground has helped the party collect data at the booth level upward -- number of BJP workers, the likely number of votes to be cast in its favour and other details. BJP is likely to fight polls in around 450 or so of 543 constituencies in these elections.
