BJP fulfilled twin objective of creating Telengana & ensuring justice for Seemandhra: Arun Jaitley

NEW DELHI: Stating that the BJP state unit had been committed to Telangana for over three decades, senior BJP leader Arun Jaitley on Friday said, "It would be unwise to view the decision of the central legislature only through the narrow prism of who will be the political beneficiaries."

"As the dust settles down, it would become clear that even though BJP was traditionally a smaller political group in the undivided Andhra Pradesh, it performed its duty with a sense of responsibility and tried to be fair between the two dividing regions of the erstwhile state of Andhra Pradesh," Jaitley said.

"Telangana had become a legitimate aspiration of the people of that region. The sentiment was so overwhelming that to delay it any further would have precipitated greater unrest. It was next to impossible to reverse the aspirations of that region," Jaitley wrote in his blog.

Jaitley blamed Congress for ' mishandling the issue' in the last few years. According to Jaitley, Congress aggravated the problem. "Instead of attempting to build consensus as was done in the course of creation of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and Uttarakhand warring factions of the Congress Party created a confrontation between the people living in the state," he said.

Jaitley emphasised, "In Rajya Sabha BJP was able to extract from the government the commitment that Seemandhra would get a special category status for five years, investments in Seemandhra would attract tax incentives on the lines made available to other states, a backward region package would be given for districts of Rayalseema and north coastal Andhra Pradesh."

"If any further demand needs to be pursued such as a support from the Centre in building a new capital for Seemandhra, the BJP will play a positive role in facilitating this aspiration also," Jaitley added.

Creation of Telangana as India's 29th state was approved by Parliament on Thursday with Rajya Sabha clearing the contentious bill to split Andhra Pradesh after Congress and BJP came together amid unprecedented bedlam.

