Narendra Modi is a symbol of destruction: Union Minister

CHENNAI: Playing down M Karunanidhi's praise for Narendra Modi, Union Minister E M Sudarsana Natchiappan today said the Gujarat Chief Minister was a "symbol of destruction" and he can never become the Prime Minister.

The Congress leader indicated that his party was open for an alliance with DMK and DMDK and said he was sure that DMK chief Karunanidhi will keep the "party's principles first" on the issue of alliance for Lok Sabha polls.

"Modi has said his party was like a tsunami, which would destruct Congress. Tsunami itself means destruction. Narendra Modi is a symbol of destruction. So, he himself has accepted that he is not necessary for the country... he can never become Prime Minister," Natchiappan told reporters here.

Addressing a rally in Gulbarga yesterday, Modi had said an anti-Congress storm was brewing in the country and it would intensify into a tsunami, which the Congress would not be able to survive in the Lok Sabha polls.

On DMK President M Karunanidhi's remark describing Modi a friend, the Congress leader said, "He has had many friends. But when it comes to alliance, I am sure he will keep party's principles first. BJP is like an auction place. They will keep auctioning and see whether people are coming. You saw them doing it. Has anyone come to them?"

Stating that A B Vajpayee could head a government largely because of its alliances with regional parties, he said despite Modi's efforts, parties "are not ready to form an alliance with BJP be it pre-poll or the post-poll".

To a query on the status of alliance formations for Lok Sabha polls, he said a decision on it will take more time since polls were expected in the state in the last phase only.

He, however, indicated Congress was open for alliances with DMK and DMDK.

Congress voted for DMK in the Rajya Sabha polls despite DMDK leader Vijaykant's plea for support.

"As for Vijayakant, he has regards for Congress and likewise, we too have the same for him. People think an alliance of DMK with other parties would be strong. As for Congress, we never say no to anyone."

Brushing aside opinion poll results, which favoured Modi and BJP, he said, "You have to see what questions are being asked and to whom?"

Natchiappan, who is the Minister of State for Commerce and Industry, wanted the Tamil Nadu Government to present the Project Report for the proposed monorail project as early as possible and pledged the Centre's support for it.

He said the officials of the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA), which the state government had approached for financial assistance for the project, said they were awaiting the report to proceed further.

