Aam Aadmi Party to field candidates against Narendra Modi, Sonia and Rahul

NEW DELHI: Targeting Sonia Gandhi, Narendra Modi, Rahul Gandhi besides UPA ministers and leaders of other parties, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal today announced that Aam Aadmi Party will field candidates against them on various counts including corruption, criminalisation of politics and dynastic politics.
Training his guns at Rahul Gandhi, Kejriwal accused him of being corrupt. He drew up a list of "corrupt" politicians that included SP supremo Mulayam Singh, BSP chief Mayawati, Union Ministers P Chidambaram and Sushilkumar Shinde and former BJP president Nitin Gadkari, among others.

Late tonight, at a meeting of AAP National Council, it was decided to add the names of Sonia for pursuing "dynastic politics" , AAP spokesperson Dilip Pandey said.

The other names added at this meeting were Vitthal Radadiya, BJP MP from Gujarat, allegedly involved in the attack on a toll booth, Dinu Solanki, also BJP MP, whose name figures in the murder iof RTI activist Amit Jethwa and Chhagan Bhjbal, former Maharashtra Deputy Chief Minister and currently PWD minister.

Within hours of his name being mentioned in the list of corrupt, Gadkari slapped a legal notice on Kejriwal demanding that he take back his words and offer a public apology within three days or face legal action.
BJP spokesperson Sudhanshu Trivedi said,"BJP condemns the statement and expects that he will either present proof (backing)... the wild allegations or seek an apology... Otherwise, all options are open, including that of taking legal action."

He also took a jibe at Modi, BJP's Prime Ministerial candidate, and Rahul, Congress Vice-President, for spendingover "Rs 500 crore on branding" and image-building exercise.

Addressing the National Council meeting attended by Aam Aadmi Party volunteers from across the country, Kejriwal said, "I have prepared a list of dishonest (politicians) of the country. If you come across any honest politician in the list then please tell me.

"I am asking for the country's approval on whether to defeat (these politicians) or send them to the Parliament," Kejriwal said.
He said the party will also field candidates against Kapil Sibal, G K Vasan, Salman Khurshid, Veerappa Moily, Prakash Jaiswal, Kamal Nath, Pawan Bansal, as well as MPs Naveen Jindal, Avtar Singh Bhadana, Anu Tandon, Suresh Kalmadi and Assam CM Tarun Gogoi.

The Chief Minister accused Gandhi and Modi of indulging in expensive image branding campaigns.
"They spent Rs 500 crore for image make over...To prepare brand Modi and brand Rahul, they are spending Rs 500 crore. Can these people, who spend Rs 500 crore for branding, give an honest government? After they come to power, they will recover that money from us," he said.

Kejriwal said AAP candidates will also be fielded against Union Minister Farooq Abdullah, DMK MPs Alagiri, former Minister A Raja, Kanimozhi and NCP leaders and Union Ministers Sharad Pawar and Praful Patel.

AAP will also field candidates against JD(S) leader and former Karnataka Chief Minister H D Kumaraswamy and YSR Congress chief Jaganmohan Reddy, he said.

Kejriwal said the party's motto was not to seize power, but to eradicate corruption.
"Our motto is not to seize power and do politics for power like BJP and Congress. Our motive should be no corrupt leader and no one from dynasty politics should enter Parliament," he said.

"We trusted these parties for 65 years and thought that they will do good to the nation, but they betrayed us. After 65 years, we have an opportunity that a common man will go inside Parliament and talk about his rights," Kejriwal said.
