Riding on hybrid economy, UP’s voters frame big question: Is Narendra Modi enough for BJP?

It is a strange set of individuals to embrace at once. In Uttar Pradesh, the debate is all about the Modi leher—people vehemently confirm and dismiss its existence. But as you drive through the mostly reliable highways of Western and Central UP, past the potato fields, cold storage facilities being built and numerous educational institutions all named with combinations of the words 'world', 'international', 'global', 'academy' and any random proper noun, the endorsement market in these parts seems dominated by adult entertainment actor-turned-Bollywood star Sunny Leone.

Posters featuring her in variations of the same seductive pose sell whisky, condoms and energy drinks from behind trucks, from walls and from hoardings. Promotions of her latest film, Ragini MMS 2, are painted behind auto rickshaws. But for the occasional restaurant signage featuring Ranbir Kapoor selling a soft drink, no other Bollywood star has Western and Central UP going for them the way Leone has.

This would be a good time to make a profound observation about the odd and concurrent rise of Hindutva and coffee-flavoured condoms in a land that has the most say in who forms India's next government. Except, the Modi wave is frequently contested in these parts. Unless the interlocutor is a Hindu college student, in which case he will exude impatience about having to live in an India where Narendra Modi isn't yet PM. But about that, in a moment.

Firozabad, Etawah

The Samajwadi Party office in Firozabad is a tall and imposing structure that stands alone in a field and is derisively referred to as the White House. At 11:30 in the morning it is still shut. Tasleem Nizamuddin and Mehzevi, two burqa-clad college-going women, are waiting for party functionaries to arrive. They are there to claim their entitlements of Rs20,000 from the government's Kanya Vidhya Dhan scheme and the promised free laptop. Having passed inter college, they are now college students, but they have not got the benefits yet.

But what are they doing at the SP office to claim an entitlement that should be disbursed from their college or a government office? Tasleem acknowledges the question with the sympathetic look that locals reserve for outsiders—let me tell you how things work around here. "They have to push for it no. Otherwise how will it come?"

Firozabad is the seat Akhilesh Yadav won in 2009 and vacated in favour of Kannauj. In the bypolls, the party faced shock defeat as Congress' Raj Babbar defeated Yadav's wife Dimple Yadav. Babbar has now moved to Ghaziabad. Akhilesh's fresh-faced cousin Akshay Yadav is debuting here for SP and BJP is fielding BSP Rajya Sabha MP SPS Baghel. Tasleem and Mehzevi are unanimous that the SP candidate will win.

In Etawah, the battle is between SP's MP Premdas Kateria and BJP's Ashok Dohre. There have been demonstrations by party workers against Dohre's candidature.

Harmohan Singh Yadav, who runs Lucky restaurant by the Etawah-Kanpur highway, says that BJP stood a chance from the seat but they picked the wrong man. "There is a BJP wave in UP. But in Etawah, even BJP supporters might end up voting for SP due to poor candidate selection."

This, worryingly for the BJP, is a complaint we would hear again and again. In Kanpur people told us that BJP stood a better chance if it had fielded MLA Satish Mahana instead of Murli Manohar Joshi. In Rae Bareli, college students from Unnao who are unabashed Modi fans, told us the party has made a mistake by parachuting Sakshi Maharaj from Farukkhabad and Congress' Annu Tandon might win yet again.

In Lok Sabha elections, a certain amount of rebellion over candidate selection is inevitable in any party. But for the BJP, which has very few sitting MPs in the state and faced competing claims for nearly every ticket, this has been a particularly tough season. Protests against the party candidate has been reported from Etawah, Doomariyaganj, Deoria and Faizabad, among others. If the party ends up doing worse than expected in UP, candidate selection will be blamed. It's a no-win situation for the BJP leadership. If candidates win, the credit will go to the Narendra Modi wave anyway.

Kanpur

Kanpur, and indeed much of Western and Central UP, is in that twilight zone where elections have started to animate conversations with the relative merits of candidates but are yet to overwhelm the landscape with flags, posters and party symbols on walls.

The Naveen market is a centrally located general-purpose market in Kanpur, the formerly glorious industrial city of cotton and steel mills, tanneries, trade unionism and LML Vespa scooters.

The southern side of the market is populated with Muslim traders, while the stores on the central corridor are almost entirely run by the Punjabi-Sindhi community. Depending on which quarter you put the question to, you get very different answers about the likely outcome of the upcoming polls, which is seen here to be mostly a contest between Congre s s ' t h re e - t e rm MP Sriprakash Jaiswal and BJP's Joshi.

The Muslim merchants, almost without exception, say they will vote for the Congress. They are SP voters otherwise, but there is no point in supporting SP this elections. Besides, a recent and bloody ruckus between doctors at Kanpur Medical College and supporters of local SP MP Irfan Solanki have soured matters a bit for the party.

Almost as if on cue, a large Modi hoarding in town has a message adapted for local conditions: "Bahut Hogaya Gundagardi, Loot mar; Is baar banegi Modi Sarkar".

On the central side, many say Joshi will sail through with a record majority. Not because he is popular, but because of the "Modi leher" sweeping UP, they say. But the responses on this side are not so unanimous. There are many who say there is a surge in favour of the BJP but doubts Joshi's suitability for Kanpur. Jaiswal is no pushover, with years of local connect, an approachable image and connections with local business community working in his favour. Besides,the local candidate of the AAP, Dr Mahmood Rahmani, is an eye surgeon who is highly regarded locally, making matters a bit unpredictable.

According to local journalists, Kanpur has about 4 lakh Muslim voters (in 2009, the electorate was 13 lakh strong; only a little over 5 lakh turned up to vote). The upper caste Hindu votes are larger in number, but come voting day, very few of them tend to step out of Kanpur's prosperous colonies to vote.

After Joshi was announced as a candidate from Kanpur, there were reports that Maharajpur MLA Satish Mahana of the BJP, who lost to Jaiswal in 2009 for just 18,000 votes, had sworn in an internal meeting to not support Joshi's campaign.
BJP's Kanpur president Surendra Maithani denied any rift in the party. The challenge for the BJP here is to make sure its supporters come out to vote. Last time, turnout was just 36.9%. Maithani says that of the 1.25 lakh new voters in the city, 63,000 have been enrolled by party workers. Joshi will arrive in the city on 22 March, the day the city celebrates Ganga Mela, a Kanpur festival that marks the end of week-long Holi celebrations. He will have a little over a month to campaign in the city.

The other recurrent theme that came up in our conversations theme is the disappointment with Arvind Kejriwal and AAP. To the young party's credit, awareness about it is high and people tend to know the local candidate. But there is pervasive disappointment that it started out as a party that offered hope and now no one is sure any longer what it stands for. AAP's Dr Rahmani said he had decided to enter electoral politics due to the rise of three Cs—criminalization, communalism and capitalism (there, this affliction that makes politicians believe that somehow ideas are more appealing if expressed in acronyms and alliteration).

Rae Bareli

En route from Kanpur to Rae Bareli, we stopped at two colleges on the border between Unnao and Rae Bareli districts—Raja Ram Gopal PG College and Pandit Madan Gopal College of Science. Large number of first and second-year college students were hanging out outside their colleges after exams. Which way is the hawa in these parts? "Modi in every seat."

The exuberance of college students about Modi is extraordinary. They don't seem to care about the BJP or know the local candidates. They don't have clear answers about why they like Modi. But they support Modi and expect him to win. The girl students were hesitant to discuss politics. One student who agreed, Sarala Yadav, a second-year BA student from Rae Bareli, said BJP would win from her constituency. But she didn't know who the local candidate was.

You can find many Gandhi family haters in Rae Bareli, the family pocket borough that has atrocious roads but many large infrastructure projects. "A lot of money has come here but all it has done is to create a network of their cronies and brokers," said Kanhaiya Lal Soni, who said he was an RSS supporter.

AAP's Shazia Ilmi might have shied away from contesting against Sonia, but if you believe Soni, she needn't have. "If Shazia had come here, and if the BJP had put up a good candidate, Sonia would have been in trouble. But as things stand, she will win," Soni said. Across from the motorcycle repair shop where Soni sat, Rae Bareli's first mall is being built. In a stationery store next door, "Koi Deewana Kehta Hai" a book by Kumar Vishwas, the AAP candidate who is taking on Rahul in Amethi, displayed prominently. According to shopkeeper Vimal Pratap, a Sonia supporter, the book sells 15-20 copies every week, enough to make it a best seller in Rae Bareli.

As we leave for Lucknow, on a road that is being expanded into a four-lane highway, we meet a group of labourers. Kamlesh Kumar, a truck driver, dismissed the talk against Sonia. "I don't know about the rich people. But we have facilities like hospitals and roads. It's all thanks to Sonia."
