Lok Sabha polls 2014: AAP releases manifesto for North East Delhi constituency

NEW DELHI: Setting up of East Campus on the lines of North and South campuses of Delhi University, establishing schools and regularisation of the unauthorised colonies are among the key proposals in Aam Aadmi Party's manifesto for North East Delhi Lok Sabha contituency.

Releasing the manifesto for his constituency, the first of AAP's manifestos for seven Delhi parliamentary seats, the party's candidate Prof Anand Kumar, said, "I will ensure that all necessary steps are taken to establish the East Campus of Delhi University."

"Steps to open Central schools and Navoday Vidyalaya in the area are also on the agenda. Consequently, I will work with Delhi Government and Municipal Corporation of Delhi to take steps to open new primary and middle schools in the area."

Slamming Congress and BJP for neglecting development, especially of education facilities, in the area, Kumar said, "There is a Government Senior Secondary School in Mustafabad for girls. This school is in shambles."

"One group of students is taught for the first three days and given offs for next three days when another group attends the classes. This kind of worst situation of education in the national capital is unthinkable."

Highlighting the poor sanitation conditions of the constituency, Kumar said, "The Trans-Yamuna area is more famous for its dirty nallahas and poor sanitation condition than its people. There is a Gokalpuri drain also known as Seelampur nallah in the area."

"A grant of Rs 14 crore was sanctioned for Brahampuri, Gokalpuri drain, but the drains are flowing in open, where mosquito breeding happen most. Most deaths due to dengue also take place here."

This area has been neglected at one hand by Congress at parliamentary and legislative levels and on the other hand by BJP through its municipal corporation, he added.

Kumar said North East Delhi is one of the 90 minority districts in the country where population of one minority community (mostly Muslims) is over 20 per cent for which a special component plan is sanctioned by the Centre for their development.

"A total of Rs 125 crore meant for development of this constituency remained unutilised during the tenure of past MPs and it was sent back to the Centre. This should come back," Kumar said, adding that there is leadership deficit leading to governance deficit and compounding into development deficit.

"This has resulted in making North East Delhi as one of the most vulnerable district of heavily populated people from different parts of the country. People feel that they are living in perpetual chaos, betrayed and neglected," he said.

Expressing confidence of winning the Lok sabha seat, Kumar said, "People are looking for change. We have been working on the ground for that last two years. Our party convener Arvind Kejriwal's office is in this district. Our party member Santosh Koli died here working for the people."

"I will prioritise the solutions for sewer, water logging and transport along with the availability of of government land for hospitals, road, transport, community hall, park, cemetery, mortuary and places for cultural programmes.

"Steps will be taken to increase the frequency of existing DTC buses along with defining new routes. Covering big drains and build roads on them, increase metro connectivity and steps to control flood and plant trees along the banks of Yamuna will be among other priorities," Kumar said.

