BJP dubs AAP list of corrupt as 'cheap publicity'

BANGALORE: Slamming AAP for its list of "corrupt leaders", senior BJP leader Venkaiah Naidu today said it was "cheap publicity" and questioned the moral right of Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in including president Rajnath Singh and senior leader Nitin Gadkari in it.

"The day AAP formed the government with Congress help (in Delhi), they have lost their moral compass and therefore they don't have any right to raise fingers against others," he told reporters at "Chaaiwala my PM" campaign here.

The statewide campaign is on to counter "tea vendor" jibe at Narendra Modi by Congress MP Manishankar Iyer.

"People are laughing at them. It is nothing but cheap publicity and people will not believe it. Is he (Kejriwal) the Supreme Court of India? What moral authority he has got. He is a Chief Minister courtesy the most corrupt Congress according to him. People will decide who is what," he said.

Naidu said people will "shatter the dreams" of Congress to return to power at the centre with the help of AAP.

"Congress is adopting two-pronged strategy to support AAP. They all know they will go to jail if BJP comes to power and think they can divide BJP votes by pushing AAP in the forefront, but people are wise and I believe BJP will gain majority," he said.

Naidu said even if the BJP wins majority seats, it will not forsake NDA partners. "We will walk with them hand-in-hand even if the BJP gains majority seats," he added.

He said BJP has become more stronger after B S Yeddyurappa's return to the party in the state.

On Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar's initiative to cobble up Third Front, Naidu said people are aspiring for a stable government at the centre which earlier third front governments failed to provide.

"People have witnessed the governments led by H D Deve Gowda, I K Gujaral, V P Singh and Chandra Shekhar, who failed to give stable governments. People are wise now," he said.

In fact, there are four "Third Fronts" emerging under the leadership of Nitish Kumar, J Jayalalithaa,Mulayam Singh and Mamata Banerjee, Naidu said.
