Arun Jaitley slams Arvind Kejriwal's remarks on 'jailing media'; says AAP leader has little concern for truth

NEW DELHI: Stating that Arvind Kejriwal has 'little concern for truth', BJP leader Arun Jaitley on Friday slammed the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief and called him 'ideology-less'.

"Arvind Kejriwal started as a populist. He has evolved into a demagogue. He can make allegations against anyone and everyone without any supporting evidence. He has little concern for the truth. He believes in repeating the falsehood several times," Jaitley wrote in his blog.

"He (Kejriwal) convinces himself that facts manufactured by him are true. As a populist in many areas he is ideology-less. He looks at the mood of the mob before presenting his case. Such persons can be extremely dangerous for democratic institutions. The theory he espouses in simple language is - "Media must be taught a lesson because it is not honest. The proof of dishonesty is that they are reporting that there is an electoral advantage that Modi seems to have". With a straight face he can deny he ever said what is recorded on camera," Jaitley added.

Jaitley also accused Kejriwal of backtracking on his words. "Realizing that his comments have been found disturbing by the people he has now gone into a denial mode," Jaitley wrote.

Jaitley went on to say that Kejriwal's criticism is not a sign of 'mature politics'. "Electoral victories and defeats are a part of the electoral process. It is India and its democracy which is immortal. Men are not. The prospects of an electoral defeat should not frustrate Kejriwal into believing that democratic institutions in India have been compromised," he added.

Kejriwal had accused media of being 'sold out' "The whole media is sold out this time, it is a big conspiracy, it is a huge political controversy. If our government comes to power then we will set up an inquiry into this. And along with the media people, all will be sent to jail," he had said, hitting out at the media for focusing on his security deployment.

Accusing the "whole" media of being "sold out", Arvind Kejriwal had threatened to send media people to jail after an inquiry into the issue if AAP comes to power.

However, as the video went viral, the AAP leader denied making the remarks. "I didn't say that. I didn't say anything. How can I be upset with you (media)," he said.
