Congress's 2014 manifesto focuses on economy, growth, farmers, and universal healthcare

NEW DELHI: The Congress is pulling out its trusty little black dress from the back of the closet as it gets ready for the electoral bash. The “aam aadmi ke saath” party is all set to remind voters that it knows what matters most to them—a healthy sustainable pocketbook. The 2014 Congress manifesto will focus on ways to get the economy is back on the 8%-plus growth track.

After 10 years in government, the Congress realizes that it’s the steady, and not flamboyant, promises that will reassure voters that it is still the party that can deliver high growth. At the same time, the Congress will widen its social sector outreach to ensure that growth is inclusive, particularly for the youth and the 70-crore strong group being championed by Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi, which is just above the poverty line and hasn’t transitioned into the middle class. Consolidation and deepening of the gains and efforts of the last decade rather than expansion will be the mantra of the party’s 2014 election manifesto.
Seeking to avoid the fate of the NDA in 2004, the Congress plans to tackle the apprehensions about the economy head on. “The big concern is how to get the economy back on the growth path. Without 8% plus growth it just isn’t possible to dramatically increase spending on social sector and welfare initiatives,” a senior leader said.

Focusing on growth, which the party argues is flagging due to the global slowdown, the Congress will present a roadmap for an environment conducive to investment and entrepreneurship. India ranked 134th out of 189 countries in the World Bank’s Doing Business Report 2013, which measures parameters like ease of starting business and enforcing contracts.

The party has a three-pronged strategy. First, reforming regulatory mechanisms making these more autonomous and professional to curtail political interference, and ensuring speedy and transparent decision-making.

Second, introduce the goods and services tax. “This will create a seamless national common market for farmers, entrepreneurs, manufacturers, boost employment, provide relief to the common man, and give a sound footing for finances of states and local governments,” said another leader involved with the manifesto drafting.

Third, make it easier for public sector enterprises to invest. “The PSUs have large cash reserves, relaxing the rules will allow for an influx of investments necessary to push growth,” said a senior leader dealing with economic issues in the manifesto.These measures, the Congress says, will boost sentiment giving impetus to micro, small and medium enterprises that form the country’s industrial backbone.“We formulated the National Industrial and Manufacturing Zones policy, but it still remains a paper policy. The focus is on implementing rather than introducing new schemes,” explained a person involved in the consultation process. To give manufacturing an impetus, it will stress on enforcing single-window clearances, and ensure greater access to collateral-free credit for new micro and small units.

Making agriculture a profitable occupation will be another important pillar. Building on its initiatives to improve farm incomes, the party will seek to increase investment in the sector particularly in water conservation, efficient supply chains, building more cold chains and warehouses across the rural heartland.

Congress-ruled states have already delisted fruits and vegetables from the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees Act, allowing farmers to sell directly to any buyer. It will push other states to follow suit. Reducing middlemen is central to increasing farm incomes; therefore, it plans to concentrate on creating hubs for fruits and vegetables near metros and towns, and the government providing real-time prices through better connectivity of agricultural exchanges.

With an eye on augmenting livelihoods of small and marginal farmers, it will improve access to consumer loans; introduce insurance for all crops across the country. The Congress will actively promote farmers produce organisations to enable investments and improve bargaining power; enforce the Warehouses Negotiations Act, which allows farmers to use the produce stored in warehouses as collateral to access credit from banks.

The Congress stresses that economic growth must not deepen inequalities; its social sector outreach will be focused on at-risk and vulnerable populations. The big intervention will be in healthcare, which will be a priority. “The last ten years have been about wealth, the next focus will be health,” said a source close to the manifesto drafting exercise.
The Congress will focus on providing universal healthcare through the rights-based approach it has adopted. In partnership with the private sector, it will include free medicines, and focus on sanitation. “Lack of access to healthcare and sanitation is a major cause of impoverishment and indebtedness, resulting in people sliding back into poverty.This adversely affects productivity, poverty eradication and growth,” said a senior leader dealing with the non-economic aspects. A strong social security package for unorganized workers and an augmented pension scheme for elderly, women and disabled are also on the cards.
