Homecoming for many leaders; Keshubhai Patel, Gordhan Zadafiya set to return to BJP

GANDHINAGAR: What had started with Narhari Amin ahead of the 2012 assembly elections in Gujarat has now become an established pattern in the Saurashtra region, with leaders of the Patel community lining up to join the BJP. For most, it is homecoming.
While the last on the list to return to the BJP was Babku Unghad from the Lathi assembly constituency, Gordhan Zadafiya, a former minister of state for home affairs, is expected to be the next.

Zadafiya had parted ways with the BJP in 2007 and floated an outfit of his own, Mahagujarat Janta Party. He had contested the last Lok Sabha elections from Bhavnagar against incumbent BJP MP Rajendrasinh Rana, denti ..

denting Rana’s winning margin severely.

His return is yet to be officially announced by the party, but sources close to Zadafiya has told ET that it would happen very soon. The political outfit floated by Zadafiya, as well as that of former chief minister Keshubhai Patel, will also be merged with the BJP, sources added.

According to PTI, Keshubhai Patel on Wednesday said he would retire from politics and suggested that the Gujarat Parivartan Party (GPP) that he floated before the 2012 assembly elections be merged with the BJP.

His son has already joined the BJP. Vijay Rupani, a senior BJP leader from Saurashtra, confirmed the return of Zadafiya. With Zadafiya back in the party, the return of Patel leaders to the BJP will be almost complete in Saurashtra, he said. “We are looking at winning all the Lok Sabha seats in Saurashtra this time.”

Though he remained active in state politics after moving out of BJP, Zadafiya did not have any electoral success. But his manoeuvres did cost BJP some votes from the Leuva Patel community.

The Leuva Patels, a sub group within the powerful Patel community, was annoyed with the BJP after the unceremonious removal of Keshubhai Patel from the position of chief minister in 2001. While it was alleged that Modi was exploiting the division within the Patel community and trying to erect a counter leadership dismantling the old order created by Keshubhai Patel, the process had seriously backfired in the 2009 general elections when three out of four Patel candidates it put up had lost in the Patel heartland of Saurashtra.

The community was significantly mobilised in Gandhinagar by former chief minister Suresh Patel, which led to LK Advani’s winning margin from the constituency falling to almost half. Zadafiya’s presence had reduced the margin of Rana, a Kshatriya leader, to just 5,902 votes in Bhavnagar.

The BJP started making up with the community ahead of last assembly election and inducted Amin from the Congress with much fanfare.

The next to follow was Vitthal Radadiya, the strongman from Porbandar who had moved to the Congress from the BJP along with Shankarsinh Vaghela.

Vitthal Radadiya was disenchanted with the Congress as the party did not make him either the leader of opposition or the president of the state unit.

