BJP GJM handshaking gives stir to Darjeeling and its 'Gorkhaland' statehood politics

SILIGURI: Darjeeling, at the center of separate Gorkhaland statehood demand, has received a twist in its electoral political game today. Putting the high voltage speculation to an end, Gorkha Janamukti Morcha(GJM), the largest political power in Darjeeling hills in West Bengal, has decided to support BJP in next loksabha election. The decision, may save face of the GJM leaders but not know how far can save the party and its demand of separate statehood those are standing on Gorkhaland statehood sentiment of the common mass in hills.

"GJM president Shri Bimal Gurung has decided to support BJP candidates," announced BJP president Mr. Rajnath today.

Though not entirely unexpected, but the decision has indeed gave a jerk to the people in the locality. "Handshaking with BJP could not yield anything major so far for GJM. Not clear why GJM is going to the same path again," said Mr. Bhanu lama, a teacher from Darjeeling.

Heavyweight BJP candidate Mr. Jaswant Singh, GJM supported BJP candidate from Darjeeling in 2009, announced before election to become permanent resident of Darjeeling. It was then greeted by the common mass like anything. But giving it a stark contrast after winning, Mr. Singh hardly remained with the local people.

"Being heavyweight candidate, he will be able to press hard in favour of our cause," said Mr. Gurung earlier. But, according to the parliament record, as MP from Darjeeling during last five years, Mr. Singh raised no question and no private member bill. Took part in only 13 debates. . Out of these, only two had some relationship with Darjeeling. But he has spent 99.4% of his MPLAD fund though- "hardly any visible sign of that is there in Darjeeling constituency," said even many GJM supporters. 

Naturally, now selecting candidate is a major task for GJM-BJP duo. With practically no existence in the hills, BJP will have to remain dependent on the GJM leaders on electioneering activities there. But, a mass resentment has developed against candidates from outside . "We give vote and they suck note... We won't accept it anymore," said a GJM ground level worker. "We will select candidate after considering all pertinent facets," said Mr. Rahul Sinha, BJP West Bengal State president.

It was clear to GJM leaders that none of them could win the election as GJM candidate after recent erosion in the party following West Bengal's ruling party TMC's tactical path of forming many development authorities for many small ethnic communities in hills. GNLF, the old political force in hill has also gained strength. In addition, though GJM holds high support base in hilly areas, it is just opposite in plains area that hosts majority of the voter strength. Naturally, rendering support to B ..

But, "Even if BJP comes into power at center, it is doubtful how far it can give us separate statehood without support of the state. Relationship of GJM with TMC, that remained in fluid stage always, will definitely evaporate after this election erasing any chance of regaining this support. Thus, our going with the state will become tougher again. All these put together may cause great erosion for the party," said political observers.
