Narendra Modi attacks Nitish Kumar; mocks Bihar CM's belief of being 'best' for PM post

NEW DELHI: In a scathing attack on both Congress and Third Front parties, BJP's Prime Ministerial candidate Narendra Modi on Monday hit out at other political parties for working to 'save' each other. Modi said, "Third Front is always formed to save the Congress party."

Mocking at the Third Front Modi said, "Third Front rises when poll bugle is sounded. Third Front parties have either supported Congress or saved them." "Third Front leaders have stitched new clothes in the hope of being PM," Modi said.

Sharpening his attack on Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, Modi said, "Bihar government has played vote bank politics." "Bihar CM thinks there no one more capable than him in the entire country," he said.

Modi said that the JD(U) leader's "arrogance" and "ambition" to become Prime Minister drove him to split from BJP, and compared the socio-economic conditions of Muslims in Gujarat and Bihar to claim he practised "true" secularism.

Flanked by leaders of new partners Lokjanshakti Party and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party, Modi also lashed out at the Third Front, of which Kumar is one of the prime movers, calling it "a toli (group) of ex-Prime Ministers and more than a dozen PM hopefuls who wake up at the sound of elections and go to sleep for the remaining period".

The BJP leader chose the recent comments from Kumar that he had more experience than others to be the PM to attack him.

"What was the BJP-JD(U) alliance broken? Some said it was his (Kumar) habit to stab in the back.... We came to know of it four days back. The dream to become PM was not letting him sleep. His arrogance is higher than Mount Everest. He says nobody is as good a PM candidate as him," he told an election rally, his third in Bihar, at the Rangabhumi maidan here.

Modi quoted from Sachar Committee's report to highlight the better socio-economic conditions of Muslims in Gujarat than Bihar.

He said only 24 per cent urban Muslims in Gujarat were poor compared to 45 per cent in Bihar and the figure was seven percent for rural Muslims in his state against 38 per cent in Bihar. He quoted literacy, health and development figures from the report to drive home his point.

"Everybody is doing vote bank politics in the name of Muslims. Dust has been thrown in your (Muslims) eyes in the name of secularism. I want to expose this lie.... We respect and honour diversity. The secularism of Gujarat is true," he said.

On the demand for special package of Bihar, he said his government would give this and anything else for the welfare of Bihar.

The Congress-RJD alliance was also targeted by Modi who called it a "bhrasht-bandhan" (corrupt alliance) and said even cows and buffaloes are afraid of it as it may deprive them of their food, a reference to Lalu Prasad's conviction in fodder scam.

Taking a dig at Congress Vice-President Rahul Gandhi, Modi said, "You keep making allegations, but are not willing to answer." Modi also raked up the scams in UPA tenure during the last 10 years.

"Your party has given mobile phones. But, what about the electricity to charge those phones?" Modi asked. Addressing a rally in Bihar's Purnia, Modi said, "We need schools not on paper but on the ground. Schools in Bihar don't have computers." "In Gujarat, 71% schools have computers," he said while pitching the Gujarat growth model.