Rahul Gandhi bats for decentralisation of power and funds at grassroot level

DIPHU: Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi today advocated decentralisation of power and funds to people at the grassroot level.

"There is an idea that control should be centralised with everything managed from Delhi, but there is another idea which, I believe, is that there should be decentralisation of power and funds," Gandhi said during an interaction with representatives of nine Autonomous Councils at the Karbi Anglong Sports Association stadium here.

Gandhi said he was in favour of giving power to more and more people at the grassroot level."It has been said that I speak about empowerment of women, but I do believe that 50 per cent power should be given to women, adivasi, dalit, physically-disabled and others so that they can make use of the various schemes initiated by us," he said in his ten-minute speech.

Decisions should also be taken by the people locally as decision taken in Delhi and Guwahati would lead to fighting among the people, he said.

"Correct information does not reach Delhi and as a consequence, schemes have flaws which lead to dissatisfaction among people," he said.

Gandhi arrived here amidst tight security as a 12-hour Karbi Anglong bandh has been called by nine organisations, including the Karbi Students' Association, in support of their long-standing demand for a separate state on the lines of Telangana. Gandhi appealed to local leaders to "go directly to the people, interact more with them and try to solve their problems as they can get the correct information and solution."

"It is the local people who understand their problems best and they will be given as much power as possible to deal with the problems," he said.

The leader said that the party was for "right based development" and it was with this end in view that the government had initiated various schemes like Right to Food, Education, Livelihood and Information.

"The Opposition talks about corruption, but it is the Congress which introduced Right to Information which is a historic step as the common public can use this tool to get as much information as they want on corruption," he observed. "The MPs and MLAs are elected by the people and they have the right to know what they do with the funds allocated for their (people) use. So, please use the Right to Information to get details about scheme implementation," Gandhi said.

Asked about implementation of Article 244(A) related to creation of autonomous state and Article 244(3) related to direct funding, Gandhi said he had not done much study on the issue. He said he would go back and study the issue thoroughly and then comment on it. Representatives of the nine Autonomous Councils submitted memoranda to Gandhi highlighting their problems and demands.

