Take everybody along: RSS to Rajnath Singh

NEW DELHI: The Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh has sought to nudge BJP president Rajnath Singh to take everybody in the party along while being seen as maintaining a studied distance in the wake of reports of a spat between Singh and other senior members of the party.

“We are worried and also not worried. We feel they (BJP) are experienced enough as we had seen on earlier occasions. They are capable. They will solve the problem,” RSS general secretary Suresh “Bhaiyyaji” Joshi said on Sunday. Joshi’s comments came on the concluding day of the three-day Akhil Bharatiya Pratinidhi Sabha meeting of the RSS held in Bangalore, where the Sangh discussed preparations of its outfits for the upcoming general elections.


BJP president Rajnath Singh and party general secretary (organisation) Ram Lal were both in attendance at the concluding session of the annual event.

“Young people should be given an opportunity to render service to the nation with their youthful energy. At the same time, it is beneficial to have the guidance of senior leaders,” Joshi added. Senior leaders Sushma Swaraj and Murli Manohar Joshi had reportedly raised objections at not being kept in the loop about the developments in the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance as well as attempts in the party to shift Joshi from his parliamentary constituency, Varanasi.

RSS members speakingon the condition of anonymity said that while the organisation was backing the BJP’s prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi, who is said to be eyeing the Varanasi seat, it was not willing to let go of the older lot of leaders either.

“Earlier, there was a suggestion that both LK Advani and Murli Manohar Joshi not contest elections this time, leaving the field clear for the next generation to take charge. But both then had separate meetings with the RSS top brass in Nagpur, after which there was a change of heart. Old associations were revived,” said a top RSS member.

Advani has publicly declared his desire to contest while Murli Manohar Joshi has already started his campaign in Varanasi. As the RSS’ second in command, Joshi could well be understood to mean that the BJP president needs to work harder to take everybody along. “In the normal course, the RSS never comments publicly on any political controversy around the BJP. The very fact that Joshi has articulated a view is significant.

The last time this happened was when Narendra Modi was declared prime ministerial candidate,” said the RSS member. The RSS reviewed the work of all state units and their subsidiaries at the meeting. The efforts to increase enrolment of first-time voters were also reviewed. The meet also saw the announcement of a new team, which includes several members.

Mohan Bhagwat, the sarsanghchalak has the post for life; Joshi remains the general secretary; and the joint general secretaries are Dattareya Hosabele, Suresh Soni and K Krishna Gopal.
