Congress manifesto plans to reverse business climate; offers plethora of promises

NEW DELHI: From right to entrepreneurship, single window electronic clearance for investors, rationalisation of tax code, raising tax exemption limits to banning of capitation fee for students and new central law against ragging, the first draft of the Congress manifesto has many promises.

The suggestions on coal and gas seem to reflect the government’s thinking on these two subjects that have generated controversy.

The promise for the coal sector is a “forward-looking policy to maximise domestic coal supply while ensuring adequate incentive for the developer to mine additional coal”. The identification of the problem is “slow land acquisition and strict environmental clearance; and the restrained import of coal”.

A business-friendly proposition has been made for the gas sector too: “Constant flip-flop in...on the issue of gas pricing affects investor sentiments: gas pricing has to be made attractive to ensure timely and sufficient investment in domestic exploration and production.”

Though the party ought to be contesting on the strength of its achievements, the policy paralysis of the UPA over the last several years has not limited the scope of its manifesto even after 10 years in power. Every department of the All India Congress Committee has submitted a wish list that has been compiled into a first draft which will soon be pruned into the final document.

Apart from wish-lists from various departments within the party, inputs from interfaces with industry and interest groups and Congress V-P Rahul Gandhi’s interactions with activists and focus groups across the country, Rajiv Gandhi Institute for Contemporary Studies too has provided its own inputs.

For instance, on power-related issues, RGICS has recommended a unique solution: “For meeting local demand, local generation of electricity should be encouraged by way of DISCOMs/private players lending roof space to generate solar power.” Though the compilation of the sub-manifestoes reflects a greater play for welfare schemes, the party seems to have a clear understanding of the negative business climate.

Inputs for the commerce and industry section suggests: “More proactive approach would be adopted for improving ease of doing business, delegate powers at the regional and district level for project clearances, stable and predictable business environment, liberal foreign investment regime and more.”

There is a radical suggestion to ban all capitation fee for students, along with extending existing community or castebased scholarships for students from all BPL families. Expectedly, there is a suggestion to increase the days of employment under NREGA to 200 days.

On power, while the government has not allowed the consumer the right to choose the provider, the manifesto promises that freedom of choice. The party also promises, from a consumer’s point of view, stringent performance and quality norms for the providers.

