Will ally with whoever forms government at Centre, Jaganmohan Reddy says

HYDERABAD: It is not merely electioneering that is keeping YSR Congress chief Jaganmohan Reddy busy these days. He is also reading the autobiography of Lee Kuan Yew, the man regarded as the father of modern Singapore.

Like Lee who converted Singapore from an underdeveloped colonial outpost to a first world Asian Tiger, Jagan wants to develop the newly-created state of Seemandhra whose first chief minister he hopes to be. "I have already engaged a global consulting firm to advise me about how the state should be developed."

Jagan says that of particular interest to him will be to build the new capital. "It should be equidistant from all the corners of Seemandhra, so it has to be somewhere in the centre. It should have adequate land to build the capital and sources to supply adequate amount of water," he says.

However, Jagan is not willing to name a place. "Government of India will set up a committee to identify the place, let them do so. The capital has to be modern and with all facilities. Otherwise no one will want to go there," he adds relating how he recently discovered that there is huge deficit of specialist doctors at a super-specialty hospital in Tirupati. "Doctors don't want to go and settle in such a small place. That is why we must establish cities that are modern and big enough to attract talent from all over," he adds.

The chief ministerial candidate is sure that notwithstanding the entrepreneurial nature of the people of the region, Seemandhra will be short of funds.

"Seemandhra will be a revenue deficit state from day one. All the sources of revenue will be in Hyderabad and Telangana. That's why we will have to think out of the box," he says.

Jagan points out that countries like Japan have huge amount of surplus funds. Money deposited in banks earns zero or negative interest. "It will be useful for us to get them to invest in Seemandhra," he says.

The new state will also have to be propelled by agricultural growth with clusters in various places to process the farm produce. "I'll be able to tell you more when the consultant's report is ready," he says.

But how sure is Jagan of being elected to office? "Well, Seemandhra votes one way. Historically, we have seen this. They give a huge majority to the winning party," he says cocksure of coming to power. "It is traditionally Telangana that throws up a fractured mandate and gives mixed results," he says.

Though now part of Seemandhra, Jagan's YSR Congress will contest seats in Telangana too — in the districts of Nalgonda, Khammam and Hyderabad. Seemandhra will elect 25 members of Lok Sabha and 175 MLAs.

Jagan is sure that he will move to the new capital pretty quickly. "I am told that IAS officers are apprehensive about moving to a new place. But the point is if we have to move, we should do it quickly," he says.

Jagan says that he is aware that Seemandhra will be short of funds, so from day one he will be dependent on the central government. "I have no choice, I have to ally with whoever forms the government in Delhi," he adds.

Jagan's bitterness is directed towards Chandrababu Naidu whom he dismisses with a wave of a hand. "He is old. This will be his last election. He can't do anything." For the record, Chandrababu Naidu also thinks nothing of Jagan.

