Vinod Kumar Binny withdraws support to Delhi govt; AAP downplay it

NEW DELHI: Expelled AAP MLA Vinod Kumar Binny today announced withdrawing support to the Delhi Government and accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of being "more dangerous" than a corrupt person who is telling "lies" and "deceiving" people.

With withdrwal of support by Binny, the support for AAP has shrunk to 37, one more than the required majority of 36 in the 70-member House. Besides eight Congress MLAs, the government has been given outside support by a Janata Dal (United) MLA and an Independent.

"Today I am writing to Lt Governor Najeeb Jung apprising him of my decision to withdraw support to Kejriwal government. Kejriwal is more dangerous than a corrupt person. He is telling lies and deceiving not only citizens of Delhi, but also people of the entire country," he said.

Asked about Binny's decision, AAP made it clear that it will not have any impact on the government or the party.

"The government nor the party will be affected by Binny's move," said AAP spokesperson Dilip Pandey.

Binny said he would support the government in the assembly in passage of the Jan Lokpal Bill.

"If the government brings Anna's (Hazare) Jan Lokpal Bill in the assembly for its passage, I will support them," said Binny.


On January 26, Binny was expelled from the party for "indiscipline" 10 days after he had called Kejriwal a "dictator" and accused the party of "betraying" the people of Delhi by backtracking on its election promises.

The Laxmi Nagar MLA on Sunday had claimed support of at least five legislators and threatened to pull down the government if his demands were not met within 48 hours.

He had asked the government to sort out issues related to power and water sector. He demanded that government should give subsidy on 8 per cent increase in power surcharge. The DERC has increased the power surcharge ranging from 6 to 8 per cent this month.

He had also said that "The government should make women squads as promised to ensure security of women. Instead of charging people for entire 700 litres of water after exceeding the limit, the government should charge only for water consumed over 700 litres.


Binny had also said that he would also form a political front with two other AAP MLAs, who were in touch with him, along with municipal councillors.

He also claimed support of JD (U) MLA Shoaib Iqbal and Independent legislator Rambeer Shokeen. Both the MLAs later said they would not go ahead with their threat.

The two legislators had said they changed their mind after a meeting with Kejriwal on Monday and then claimed that Binny had also agreed not to withdraw support to AAP government.
