BJP seeks to increase its tally five fold in eastern UP

VARANASI/GORAKHPUR: The road to power at the Centre is said to run through Uttar Pradesh, but for the BJP it may well start from the state’s eastern region or Purvanchal, where the party is seeking to increase its tally five fold compared with the previous Lok Sabha elections.

With 36 seats, the region represents a bigger electoral pie than Madhya Pradesh (29 seats), Karnataka (28 seats) or Gujarat (26 seats). In 2009, the BJP had won just four seats in the region, one more than in 2004. This time, however, the party is sensing a game-changing grounds well in favour of its prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi.

It is also working overtime to cash in on this sentiment, as the road from Varanasi to Gorakhpur – a six-hour long excruciating potholed ride – lined with Modi’s posters indicates.

BJP’s president of the state unit, Lakshmikant Bajpayee, says Modi is changing the rules of the game in east UP where voters have traditionally voted along caste lines. “That is why SP and BSP have ruled. This led to poverty and the area suffered on development even as the future of regional party leaders prospered,” Bajpayee says, adding, “But Modi ji is for the first time talking about the utter lack of development and unemployment in this poor region of UP. The communal and caste factors will be rejected – people will vote for good governance.”

At his twin rallies in Varanasi and Gorakhpur, Modi raised aspirational issues like unemployed youths of east UP coming to Gujarat for jobs and promising development like Gujarat within a decade if the BJP were to get a chance in the region. At the Gorakhpur rally in December, Modi also pointed out that people voted majorly for the BJP in reserved constituencies in the recent assembly polls.

Lalji Tandon, the party’s MP from Lucknow and veteran leader exudes confidence that the party can even surpass its target if Modi contests from the state. “There is a Modi wave in UP and we will be the largest party here from having just 10 seats apiece in 2009 and 2004. I am willing to vacate the Lucknow seat for Modi ji if he wishes to fight from UP,” he says.
