Arvind Kejriwal to contest from Varanasi; dares Narendra Modi for open debate

VARANASI: Arvind Kejriwal officially donned the mantle of his Aam Aadmi Party’s candidate against Narendra Modi in Varanasi on Tuesday firing multiple shots across the bows of the BJP leader, setting the stage for a David-versus-Goliath battle with Hinduism’s holiest city providing the backdrop.

Addressing a gathering of more than 10,000 people assembled in Varanasi’s Beniabagh maidan, Kejriwal took potshots at Modi’s development record in Gujarat, labeling it false and media-created as he dared the Gujarat chief minister to a debate. Parts of his speech were carefully aimed at individual voter groups as he courted Varanasi’s weavers, the trading community and even housewives with messages carefully tailored for each of them.

Kejriwal, his trademark AAP cap and clothes smeared with blotches of black ink hurled earlier at him by protesters, even halted his speech mid-way for a bit after he was told by an aide that it was time for azaan or Muslim prayers, a gesture aimed at the ancient city’s significant Muslim population. Earlier in the day, he had taken a dip in the Ganges and visited Varanasi’s famous temples.

Accusing both Congress and the BJP as two sides of a coin, the AAP leader said contrary to what was being projected, Gujarat was worse off under Modi’s watch, with the state’s farmers reeling under distress after being forced to sell their land cheaply and small businesses dying. As predicted by ET in its Tuesday edition, Kejriwal also questioned what he said was Modi’s silence on the issue of whether to allow majority foreign investment in multi-brand retail, a policy the BJP is opposed to.

“Although the BJP’s stand on this matter is clear, Modi hasn’t said much about this. But recently it was evident that his stand is clearly different from his party’s. While replying to a question, Modiji said that our traders and businessmen shouldn’t be afraid of competition from outsiders. What does this mean? This means if voted to power he will allow Walmart to set up its chain here and that will hurt the small traders and businessmen,” Kejriwal said.

He also repeated what is by now his familiar charge about Modi being close to large corporate groups, using their aircraft and helicopters for his travels and money to fund his political rallies. The build-up to Kejriwal’s maiden event in Varanasi was marked by tension, as the IRS officer-turned-anti corruption activist-turned politician’s procession to the rally site was greeted by protests, mostly by BJP workers.

As he travelled through the narrow bylanes of the city from one holy ghat to another interacting with locals, he was often confronted with spontaneous and orchestrated chanting in favour of the BJP’s prime ministerial candidate and dismissive bystanders. His vehicle was pelted with eggs and black ink was thrown at his convoy as it snaked its way through Varanasi’s streets.

Although Kejriwal did not seem unsettled by such sights, AAP leaders admitted there could be resistance to his presence in the city that is widely seen as a BJP stronghold. But they said this was the only way to prove that the party is a serious challenger in these elections.

For AAP leader Anand Kumar, who accompanied Kejriwal on his first day out in Varanasi, the decision to pit their leader against Modi was a way of proving to the electorate that the AAP is a party willing to put everything at stake to change the current system of politics. “Win or lose, the day Arvind files his nomination against Modi, we are sure that there will be a qualitative shift in the electoral choice of the secular middle class,” he told ET.

“The message that this move sends out will work wonders for us in the long run, irrespective of whether we win or lose this election,” said another senior leader, who did not wish to be identified. Kejriwal ended his speech with the announcement that he will fight Modi and challenged the BJP leader to a debate on Gujarat’s development model, employing a strategy he had deployed during the Delhi elections in which he had asked Sheila Dikshit to debate the issues confronted by the Capital’s electorate.
