Narendra Modi fever grips UP: Prominent SP, BSP leaders to formally jump on Modi bandwagon

LUCKNOW: With the BJP all set to announce its candidates for the Lok Sabha polls next week, the stage is set for several prominent leaders of other parties to formally jump on the Narendra Modi bandwagon. The list is likely to include BSP MP Vijay Bahadur Singh, SP MPs Kamlesh Valmiki and Brij Bhushan Saran Singh, former BSP minister Phagu Chauhan and former BSP MP Balkrishna Chauhan.

Congress' Lok Sabha member from Sultanpur, Sanjay Singh, was also about to shift loyalties before the party high command sensed trouble in its Amethi-Rae Bareli backyard and intervened to send him to the Rajya Sabha from Assam, a senior leader said. Vijay Bahadur Singh, Lok Sabha member from Hamirpur, was among the few faces from Mayawati-led BSP that defended the party in debates on television.

He was sacked from the party a few months ago after he started singing praises of Modi. "The country now needs the strong leadership of Modi. It is only he who can restore governance and provide clean, graft-free government," said Singh, who has had about half dozen meetings with BJP president Rajnath Singh. "I will soon be joining the BJP. Whether they consider me for the LS seat from Hamirpur is up to the BJP leadership," Singh told ET.

SP's Lok Sabha member from Bulandshahr, Kamlesh Valmiki, is routinely spotted with BJP leader Kalyan Singh. Valmiki is likely to figure in the list, sources said.

Similarly, the SP MP from Qaiserganj, Brij Bhushan Saran Singh, is set to return to his parent party. Singh, who started his career with the BJP and is an accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case, had switched sides in 2009, when he got elected from Qaiserganj as an SP nominee. SP chief Mulayam Singh Yadav had named him as candidate for the 2014 polls as well.

But Singh, who does not pull along well with SP leaders from his area, particularly senior minister Raja Anand Singh, rejected the SP ticket. Along with his son PB Singh, he was involved in arranging Modi's rally in Varanasi. It is his lobbying for a Lok Sabha ticket for his son too that is causing the delay in his return to his parent party, a BJP leader said.

Jat leader Sompal Singh Shastri was also given a ticket by the SP to contest from Baghpat, but in the aftermath of the Muzaffarnagar riots he refused the offer. Shastri had defeated RLD chief Ajit Singh in 1998 and was made the agriculture minister in the NDA government headed by Prime Minister AB Vajpayee. Shastri told ET that he was yet to make up his mind on contesting the LS polls.

"I am pained by the bloodshed in western UP during the riots. I want to work for the people here and restore harmony, and that is why I refused the SP ticket. As of now, I do not feel like contesting elections," he said.

Phagu Chauhan, revenue minister in the erstwhile BSP government, joined the BJP recently and could be among the party's candidates. Another ex-BSP MP Balkrishna Chauhan is among the probables to be fielded by the BJP from Mau.
