AAP chief Arvind Kejriwal begins road show in UP, attacks BJP

GHAZIABAD: In a bid to widen its area of influence, AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday kick-started his three-day road show in UP, saying if BJP comes to power at the Centre corruption and price rise will continue.

Launching the road show from the party's office in Kaushambi, Kejriwal said, "If BJP comes, things will remain as they are. Corruption will stay in the country, price rise will continue. Our enemies are corruption, price rise and communalism."

The road show will cover over 15 Lok Sabha seats in the politically significant state.

"UP is dominated by caste and religion politics and we want to replace it with politics of development. The state is backward and we intend to target other parties over a number of issues plaguing the state," said senior party leader Manish Sisodia, who is accompanying Kejriwal in the road show.

"Corruption, dynastic politics and criminalisation of politics are the main issues we will target in UP. Also, power is another important issue we intend to target as it is a bigger problem," said another party leader and UP in-charge Sanjay Singh.

Kejriwal will also address a rally in Kanpur tomorrow. The rally, second after the one in Rohtak in Haryana last week, is also a part of AAP's national campaign, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections.

Through the road show, AAP intends to target rival parties especially the Congress and the BJP over the Reliance gas issue.

The party plans to counter political heavy-weights like Samajwadi supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav, Congress-Vice President and President Sonia Gandhi, Union Ministers Salman Khurshid and Ajit Singh by fielding candidates against them.

On March two, the road show will start from Hardoi and proceed to Unnao and reach Kanpur.

On March 3, the road show will head to Delhi covering Auraiya, Etawah, Firozabad, Agra, Mathura and Palwal.: Taking the poll battle to Uttar Pradesh, AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal today kick-started his three-day road show in the politically significant state.

Kejriwal's rally, which started from the party office in Kaushambi, will cover over 15 Lok Sabha seats in the state. The rally will cover Ghaziabad, Pilkhuwa, Hapur, Amroha, Moradabad, Rampur, Bareilly, Shahjahanpur and Hardoi.

"UP is dominated by caste and religion politics and we want to replace it with politics of development. The state is backward and we intend to target other parties over a number of issues plaguing the state," said senior party leader Manish Sisodia, who is accompanying Kejriwal in the road-show. "Corruption, dynastic politics and criminalisation of politics are the main issues we will target in UP. Also, power is another important issue we intend to target as it is bigger problem than Uttar Prad ..

Kejriwal will also address a rally in Kanpur tomorrow. The rally, second after the one in Rohtak in Haryana last week, is also a part of its national campaign, ahead of the Lok Sabha elections.

Through the road rally, AAP intends to target rival parties especially the Congress and the BJP over the Reliance gas issue. The party has over 3.5 lakh workers and activists in Uttar Pradesh and also has pinned high hopes in the state.

It also plans to counter political heavy-weights like Samajwadi supremo Mulayam Singh Yadav, Congress-Vice President and President Sonia Gandhi, Union Ministers Salman Khurshid and Ajit Singh by fielding candidates against them.

On March two, the road rally will start from Hardoi and proceed to Unnao and reach Kanpur where Kejriwal will address a rally. In Kanpur, Kejriwal will meet leaders from business community and social organisations. On March 3, the road rally will head to Delhi covering Auraiya, Etawah, Firozabad, Agra, Mathura and Palwal. Kejriwal's road rally, comprising fleet of over 50-70 cars, led to a traffic jam in Kaushambi.
