BJP lashes out at Home Minister's 'crushing' media remark; Shinde clarifies

NEW DELHI: Even as Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde sought to clarify his remarks on 'crushing' media, BJP on Tuesday lashed out calling the leader's remark condemnable. "We are proud of the media of this country. How can the Home Minister use such language," BJP spokesperson Ravi Shankar Prasad said.

MA Naqvi of BJP said, "Congress is itself crushed under corruption and misrule and talks of crushing media."

After stoking a controversy by threatening to "crush" the electronic media, Shinde said he was speaking about the social media and not about journalism. "I was referring to social media and the violence incited against students from the Northeast in Hyderabad and Karnataka. My comments were not abou ..

Shinde had on Sunday evening threatened to "crush" the electronic media, alleging a section of it was unnecessarily provoking the Congress by indulging in "false propaganda" against it.

The outburst by Shinde, a Congress leader who hails from Maharashtra's Sholapur district, came at a Youth Congress event.

Shinde, who is a Lok Sabha MP from Sholapur, alleged that since the last four months a section of the electronic media is "manipulating" news about him and his party and warned it would be "crushed" if this kind of reportage is not stopped immediately.

"What is happening in the electronic media largely I am aware of it. In the last four months there have been efforts by the media to provoke us (Congress). We will crush such elements in the electronic media, which are indulging in false propaganda, if it did not stop" he said.

"I have the intelligence department under me. I know who is doing such things. I know what is happening. Some forces are behind this," he added.

Shinde's remarks came against the backdrop of a series of opinion polls in the national and regional media which predicted a poor showing for the Congress in the upcoming Lok Sabha polls.

Urging the media to focus on positive stories, which will be welcomed by the people, Shinde said the people of the country will not accept those dividing the country by disturbing society.
