Vote on Account 2014: Next government has huge task of managing the accounts: Nilesh Shah, Envision Capital

In a chat with ET Now, Nilesh Shah, MD & CEO, Envision Capital, shares his views on the market. Excerpt:

ET Now: How will life change for the Indian markets? A non-event has become a minor event and still there is no reaction on benchmark indices?

Nilesh Shah: Yes, I think that this was widely expected to be a non-event and of course the excise duty cuts have brought some kind of life, particularly in sectors like the auto sector. However, the market is more focussed on the fiscal deficit number of 4.1%, and how realistic is that assessment.

On the one hand, we have excise duty cuts, and on the other hand, we are going to have higher subsidies and a higher government borrowing. So in that backdrop, how achievable is the 4.1% fiscal deficit number, and this is surely going to put some kind of pressure on the government’s borrowing programmes. Therefore, it is going to put an upward pressure on interest rates and the market may not be very comfortable with this kind of a scenario. So, you have pretty muted response from the market on  the excise duty cut.
ET Now: Would you agree with the fact that the markets would have largely discounted the vote on account and the action will shift largely to global cues from hereon?

Nilesh Shah: Clearly at this stage, the markets were actually expecting the vote on account to be a non-event and the fact that the fiscal deficit target for last year or at least this financial year is lower compared to the 4.8% target. It is at 4.6%. That is something which the market will look at positively and for the market, that is a sigh of relief. So, barring the earnings season and various opinion polls which will give some indication in terms of what kind of a government we will have, it is going to be back to the global factors in terms of what is going to happen on the US FED, and what is the outlook on emerging markets. These are some of the factors which will basically keep the market in motion.

From mid-April, the focus of the market will shift to two things. One is the outlook for the next financial year coming in from the technology companies and in that backdrop, we have to keep in mind that NASSCOM has given a guidance of 15% plus growth. So, if the Indian IT majors give a similar outlook, clearly technology as a sector will continue to do well, which has the potential to lift the market up.

Secondly, what the opinion polls say in terms of the election outcome in May. So between now and mid-April, it is going to be back to global cues, but post that, it is going to be back to the earnings season and elections.

Later, it is going to be back to the global factors – the US Fed taper, the outlook on emerging markets etc, which will basically keep the market in motion.

ET Now: The numbers are indeed very ambitious if one may use the word. Questionable as well, and so, do you think the market is going to discount them to some extent and will not hold the next government with a gun on its head?

Nilesh Shah: At this stage the excise duty cut has not given up a significantly positive boost to the markets. At present, the market is not willing to buy into the numbers of 4.1% estimated for the next financial year. I believe that the next government has a huge task ahead in terms of managing the finances. On the one hand you are going to see subsidies balloon with the Food Securities Act coming into full play next year and on the other hand, the economy is going to take a while to revive and if that happens, the tax revenues are going to be under pressure.

If the next government wants to kick-start growth by reviving the investment cycle, that is going to put further pressure on the finances and you could possibly have a contrarian scenario where interest rates may hold up or may even inch up. I believe that at this stage, this is precisely what the apprehensions which could be there in the marketplace and which will continue to place till we do not see what the next government has to present to the nation in July when it presents its first budget. So till that point of time, the market is going to be cagey and cautious at least on discount.

ET Now: In the overall scheme of things, where do you think banks will fit in now? If the economy is looking up, rates will come down, if rates will come down, bond yields will come down, if bond yields will come down, profits will go up for banks.

Nilesh Shah: I am not too sure how this assessment will actually play out. I still believe it is premature and very early in the game to start believing that interest rates will start coming down. I would not be surprised if interest rates actually hold up at this level, at least for the first six months of the nest financial year.

For the public sector banks, the real challenge is reorientation of how these banks function. The bigger challenge out there is asset quality. There are no signs that deterioration in asset quality is stabilising. I also believe that this deterioration in asset quality is more structural in nature rather than cyclical in nature. So, unless the new government comes in and reorients the way the banks function and infuses a lot of capital, I do not see anything like this happening the banking sector to revive. So, I still believe that you might still have an upside in the markets, which could be driven by a whole host of other sectors, but I still believe that it is too early to say that the worst is over for banking stocks and the banking sector. I would be surprised if the banking sector continues to underperform in the markets for the next one or two quarters at least.
