Vote on Account 2014: Policy reforms, technological innovation needed in real estate

Sachin Sandhir, MD, RICS South Asia

India's real estate market is currently witnessing a number of challenges. The biggest of all the problems, is the presence of hundreds of unfinished projects that have been delayed by one to two years. Moreover, the long bout of inflation, rising key policy rates, rising cost of construction materials and cost of construction labour has hit the market hard. Additionally, after months of a virtual standstill in sales, the prices are not coming down.

Development firms are unable to bring down the prices on account of the inflationary pressures. Factors such as lack of professionalism, high degree of fragmentation in the market, shortage of qualified professionals and a partial paralysis on the policy front have led to a decline in investment sentiment. The overall economic climate, coupled with inflation, is keeping buyers at bay. Little improvement is expected ahead of the general elections in May this year.

The developments around the world too may hinder investment sentiment in the country. Another global meltdown, on account of China's banking crisis, already troubled European nations and the tapering of the U.S. stimulus could mean another slump in the property market. And the Indian real estate sector cannot function in isolation.

Positive indicators in the economy While the overall scenario has remained gloomy since 2013, year 2014 started with some optimism. There are indicators in the market that there will be revival in future. In the recent past, the current account deficit and inflation have come down. The rupee, which hit a lifetime low of 68.85 versus dollar on 28 August last year, has stabilized since early-September, supported by improvement in India's current account balance and a slew of measures by the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), including the recent revision in repo rates and policies designed around the capital flow within the country. The December retail inflation declined to 9.8 per cent on account of a sharp fall in vegetable prices. Wholesale inflation too fell sharply from 7.52 per cent to 6.16 per cent.

The current account deficit fell to 1.2 per cent of gross domestic product in the July-September quarter of the current fiscal, the lowest level since the fourth quarter of 2010-11. The current account deficit, which is the difference between inflow and outflow of forex, had touched an all-time high of $88.2 billion in 2012-13.

But these developments are often cyclical and more dependent on market dynamics. This proves a point – the Indian real estate market needs a stronger foundation of global best practices that are based on the principles of good governance, professionalism and efficiency. Only these measures can bring a sea change the way market operates.

There has to be a long term strategy for the market to tackle problems. For this, each one of the stakeholders – the government, the policy makers and the industry including the development firms and financial institutions -- has the responsibility to make the market a better place.

How can this be done?

The economic indicators, however, do not paint a clear picture for future. While there are signs of recovery at the domestic front, the service and delivery based real estate sector is in need of a robust mechanism that would ensure faster delivery and timely completion of projects. Tackling one of the biggest challenges – delay in project completion and delivery -- will bring back growth in the market. With the demand for housing and infrastructure growth already high, it is the foremost requirement that industry adapts to international best practices and technological innovation to achieve the herculean task.

There is reportedly low usage of Information Technology (IT) in the sector, especially due to the presence of small and medium enterprises. Additionally, a plethora of problems exist — lack of incentives, and general apprehension about IT.

Real estate development is an information intensive process. In real estate development we integrate diverse and specialised intellectual resources and expertise; and thrive on the creation of project delivery networks based on alliances between participants from contractually-bound multiple organisations. Timely information availability and sharing can therefore, significantly improve operational efficiencies leading to reduction in project time and cost overruns that we currently face.

Various IT-enabled techniques have been introduced in the market so far. Some of these include, three-dimensional modelling, lean project management and Building Information Modelling (BIM) etc. For instance, recently the Delhi Mumbai Industrial Corridor Development Corporation has recommended the adoption of 3D modelling technology for all the city-level infrastructure development for Dholera city; placing the foundation of a smart city.


Numerous developers have adopted a Building Information Modelling (BIM) or Virtual Design and Construction (VDC) technology to streamline the design and construction processes. BIM or VDC allows the project team to design and construction the project twice once “virtually” and then on the site. This facilitates eradication of a majority of mistakes and inefficiencies in the processes. However, the response towards adapting these technologies is slow. Hopefully, in future the industry will embrace modernization completely and create a platform for transformation on the basis of these innovative methods.

Expectations from the government

While the industry is moving towards reforms, it is also important to bring in regulation. The long pending Real Estate Regulation Bill 2013 that was tabled in the monsoon session of the Parliament and later sent to a standing committee for further discussion should see the light of the day in the future. The regulation has the potential to speed up the registration of projects thereby streamlining the construction process, right from the inception to the announcement and the final delivery.

Involvement of the government machinery registering and sanctioning projects is thus crucial, which can at least help reduce the cost by quicker sanctioning of projects. At present, developers have to take more than 40 different types of sanctions before the start of the project, which increases the overall cost of the project and results in the delay. The additional cost incurred due to the regulatory bottlenecks, is passed on to the buyers. To achieve this, there is an urgent need for a single window system for approvals process in the country.

The industry is already in consultation with the government to bring a single window clearance mechanism for the real estate sector. But the implementation will take time. The SAPREP Committee appointed by Ministry of Housing and Urban Poverty Alleviation (MoHUPA) that worked extensively between April 2012 and January 2013 to understand key issues contributing to slow approval processes has already recommended corrective actions.

Additionally, year 2013 saw some progress towards reforming the sector and bringing in more liquidity into the system. The publication of the draft guidelines on SEBI (REITs) Regulation 2013 paved way for a positive investment climate in the country. The decision to allow listings of Real Estate Investment Trusts (REITs) in India as an investment product will boost the liquidity situation of cash starved developers, who are struggling to find funds for their construction activities. This would also help boost the subdued investor sentiments in the country. While REITs will provide investors an investment avenue, which is comparatively less risky than investing in under-construction properties, implementation will also give them easier exit routes along with regular income in terms of returns.

Another key area of concern is valuation of land and property. Though the law has been put in place, inaccurate valuations can undermine effective asset allocation for investors, risk management and performance reporting. In addition to valuations, inconsistencies in measurement practices have also led to ambiguity in property transactions. Stipulation of 'carpet area' as the only measurement unit will limit fraudulent practices arising from use of measurement units such as saleable area, super built up area etc. Thankfully, the proposed real estate regulation has included the term carpet area.

The provision will no doubt protect customer interest and create more transparency in property transactions. However, a bigger concern that still remains unaddressed is the definition and measurement standards for carpet area. Homebuyers will at least pay for the space they would use. Till date, consumers are at the lowest end of the entire ecosystem of the property market. They continue to suffer as a result of these shortcomings in our policies. There are many such examples of delayed projects in the market. And domestic demand is sufficient to consume the current supply of projects.

It is therefore imperative that reforms be brought at a fast pace and in sync with overall market requirements. Reforms will bring back consumers in the market.
