Narendra Modi launches 'Chai pe Charcha' programme, plans to reach 2 cr voters directly

AHMEDABAD/NEW DELHI: BJP's prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi has vowed to bring back all the black money Indians have stashed abroad and promised to introduce special schemes to return part of tax paid by the salaried class if his party forms the government at the Centre.

Launching the series of 'Chai pe Charcha' or discussion over tea ahead of the upcoming general elections in Ahmedabad, Gujarat Chief Minister Modi on Wednesday reached out to people in 1,000 tea stalls across 300 cities through the event that was relayed live and allowed participants to ask questions.

"I give an assurance to my countrymen that when we form the government in Delhi, we will create a task force and make a law or amend the existing one to bring back the black money stashed away in foreign countries by Indians," Modi said, in response to a question from Thiruvananthapuram. "This is my personal commitment and I am sure only our government can do this.

Modi also said, in a speech marked by promises of governance to replace 'misgovernance' of the Congress-led ruling coalition, that he would incentivise the taxpaying salaried class by distributing a percentage of retrieved black money to them. Modi said he would reach out directly to two crore people through such sessions, which are being organised by the Citizens for Accountable Governance (CAG), a "non-political" group that is supporting Modi in his campaign.

The BJP has made it a point to highlight Modi's humble background, which included selling tea at a railway platform in his youth, especially since Congress leader Mani Shankar Aiyar took a jibe at Modi saying he could not become prime minister although he could be allowed to sell tea at a Congress conclave.

Modi was speaking at the first session of the series at a tea stall on the Sarkhej Gandhinagar highway. While the event generated considerable interest among the locals, Modi answered several questions raised by people from other locations who were connected through DTH and satellite TV.

In Gujarat, arrangements were made for live relay in more than 60 places, seven of them in Ahmedabad alone. Signifying Modi's thrust on Uttar Pradesh, most of the questions that he answered were from UP while he answered one question each from Kerala, Rajasthan and Gujarat. He answered questions from Bihar and Haryana as well.

The Delhi unit of the BJP organised the session at 47 locations across the city, where 80-100 people, including party workers turned out at each venue. BJP leader Harsh Vardhan told ET, "This is one of the many ways of reaching out to the people. The idea is to connect with everybody before the LS elections, whether it is done through such tea sessions or corner meetings or door-to-door campaigns. But Chai pe Charcha is also a symbolic presentation of the support that Modi enjoys in every nook and corner."

From February 17, the BJP's youth wing, Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha, will launch 'Modi cafes' in various campuses across the country, said Anurag Thakur, the chief of the youth wing. "We will seek the opinion of the youth for our party manifesto for the forthcoming elections..."

Sir, do something for Bihar: tea vendor to Modi

PATNA: It was a big day for the former national level swimmer Gopal Prasad yadav who runs a tea stall at Naya tola in Patna. Narendra Modi was directly conversing with him. "Can a person who used to sell tea become the PM of the country? Sir, do something for Bihar," the proud tea vendor urged Modi. In his reply, the BJP's PM candidate said Bihar is not impoverished, but bad governance for the past 20 years has devastated the state. — Ashok Mishra
