PM invites BJP for lunch, oppn vows support for the Telangana bill

NEW DELHI: The government appears all set to introduce the bill to establish a separate state of Telangana in the Lok Sabha on Thursday, after Prime Minister Manmohan Singh hosted senior leaders of BJP for lunch at 7 Race Course Road.

It tweaked the bill to give more areas of Bhadhrachalam districts to Seemandhra in anticipation of rehabilitating settlers whose dwellings would be submerged when the Polavaram project is implemented.

Senior BJP leader LK Advani, leaders of the opposition Sushma Swaraj and Arun Jaitley and party president Rajnath Singh were present at the lunch where the Prime Minister told them that "Parliament session has not been fruitful as yet. I seek your co-operation to pass some legislation."

The opposition leaders made it clear to the prime minister that there was no question of opposing the bill as BJP had consistently supported the demand.

They instead asked Congress to put its house in order as disruptions by MPs opposing the bill from the treasury benches resulted in Railway Minister Mallikarjun Kharge tabling the budget in the din. Even minister of State for Railways Kotla Jaya Surya Prakash Reddy was in the well of the House in protest over the Telangana issue, along with another minister KS Rao. In contrast, Opposition leaders said, their members were quietly watching the disturbance.

In any case, BJP left the government feeling reassured that there would be no blocking from their side. The assurance that they got from the government was a just package for Seemandhra but most especially for Rayalseema area, which would be the most poorly off, financially after the split, since Hyderabad was a great revenue source for the region.

"To us it was clear that BJP leaders will not go out of the way to block the Bill. Of course they have certain demands, especially a financial package for the Seemandhra side...We are now confident of finding a way to introduce the bill," a government source said.

