Opposition slams interim budget, says it has nothing to offer to the people

NEW DELHI: Opposition today trashed the interim budget, terming it as a "farewell budget" of a government which has "lost" on all counts and has nothing to offer to the people.

"This budget is practically a no budget. This is a farewell budget of a government which has lost on all counts. Not to highlight their (government) failures, he (Finance Minister P Chidambaram) is hiding behind the figures of percentage of world economies," BJP spokesperson Prakash Javadekar said.

Speaking to reporters outside Parliament after presentation of the Interim Budget 2014-15 by the Finance Minister, the BJP leader said the comparison with other economies like USA was not relevant as they were much bigger.

"What Indian people are suffering due to inflation and corruption...They have no answer for that," he said, adding Government has nothing to offer and, therefore, it is a failed budget."

Rubbishing the last budget of the UPA government, BSP supremo Mayawati said the interim budget has nothing new in it and has only listed UPA government's achievements in the last 10 years. Though they have tried to make it an election budget, it is not going to benefit them, Mayawati said. She said middle class will not get any benefit from it though the interim budget has made an attempt in this direction indirectly.

CPI leader D Raja said, "We should not read too much into the interim budget. Just before the elections they have to justify certain things and they have to blow up certain things".

Criticising the budget, Raja said government is slashing subsidy on food and fertilisers. "The economy is in deep crisis and it is going to be challenging for any government that will come after the next election."

Maintaining that Chidambaram is not leaving behind a strong economy, Raja said, "He made some attempts for electoral appeal at the end of his speech but people are wise enough to understand the economic situation and cannot be hoodwinked by rhetoric at the fag end of the government."
