Political parties, journalists attack Arvind Kejriwal for his comments on media

NEW DELHI: Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Arvind Kejriwal came under fire from political parties and journalists' bodies after a video, showing him say the media is "sold" and he would send media persons to jail, was aired by a news channel.

While the AAP leader's comments drew flak from Congress, BJP, NCP, Editors Guild and Broadcast Editors Associations (BEA) also criticised Kejriwal.

Congress leader and Information and Broadcasting Minister Manish Tewari said the media played an important role in a democracy and those in public life should have the strength to take critcism.

"If anyone says such a thing that if he is voted to power, he would put the media persons in jail, it is very "painful and condemnable", Tewari said. "Those in public life should have the strength to take criticism," he added.

BJP leader Arun Jaitley said Kejriwal had made allegations without evidence to support them.

"Arvind Kejriwal started as a populist. He has evolved into a demagogue. He can make allegations against anyone and everyone without any supporting evidence. He has little concern for the truth. He believes in repeating the falsehood several times. He convinces himself that facts manufactured by him are true. As a populist in many areas, he is ideology- less," Jaitley said.

The BJP leader said prospects of an electoral defeat should not frustrate leaders like Salman Khurshid and Arvind Kejriwal into believing that democratic institutions have been compromised.

NCP leader Tariq Anwar said that in a democracy the role of the media and its independence is very important and added that creating any pressure on it is not correct.

"If he is saying such things against the media, then he must realise that the identity he has today is because of the media," NCP leader Tariq Anwar said and added he felt Kejriwal should not use such language.

The Editors Guild said the "repeated attacks" on the media by Kejriwal reflected "an intolerant mindset" that resented any critical scrutiny.

"The Guild condemns in the strongest terms the repeated attacks on the media by the Aam Aadmi Party leader Arvind Kejriwal, that violate the norms of decent democratic debate," a statement by N Ravi, the President of the Editors Guild of India, said here.

The Broadcast Editors Association (BEA) termed the AAP leader's comments as "irresponsible" and said such "vague and sweeping" allegations were aimed at "diluting the credibility of the media which is discharging its responsibility in a fair and objective manner".

BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said the AAP leader had got prominence because of the media which showed all his agitations, dharnas and utterances non stop.

"Today, the media is criticising him, he is threatening to send the media persons to jail," he said adding it "showed the real fascist face" of Kejriwal.

BJP Spokesperson Prakash Javadekar said there was a fascist tendency and emergency mindset at work.

"He is working for Congress...He is not speaking about Rahul Gandhi or Congress. He is only targeting Modi because he wants to get mileage out of it. His mindset is revealed - - they are Maoists in urban outfit," he said.
