Despite Election Commission's model code, issuance of new bank licences by RBI will go on, says P Chidambaram

NEW DELHI: The model code of conduct that has come into force will not affect the issuance of new bank licences and the implementation of decisions already announced will go on uninterrupted, Finance Minister P Chidambaram said on Wednesday.

The FM, who has held that position for over six out of the 10 years the Congress-led coalition has been in power, said the government will only consider a rollback of import restrictions on gold after the final data for the current account deficit (CAD) for the current fiscal became available.

“Let’s see what the CAD figures are,” he said. This means the decision will have to wait till after the polls as the final CAD numbers are usually available with a lag of a quarter though the latest figures were announced a month earlier.

CAD for the three months to December fell to 0.9% of GDP, RBI announced on Wednesday, while the number was at 2.3% of GDP for the nine months of the fiscal.

Chidambaram indicated that RBI is likely to issue new banking licences soon. “That’s the indication I have got from RBI that they wish to issue a few licences.

But I have not had a face-to-face talk with the (RBI) governor yet on that. We are not interfering with the process; that is RBI’s decision,” he said at a press meet in Delhi, after a meeting with chiefs of state-owned banks to review the performance of the lenders.

The model code of conduct bars the ruling party from taking any action that would disturb the ‘level playing field’ needed for the Lok Sabha polls. “What’s the code of conduct got to do with this (bank licence process)? The government and regulators are discharging their normal duties,” Chidambaram replied, when asked about bank licences.

Planning Commission deputy chairman Montek Singh Ahluwalia backed this interpretation. “My understanding is that no new project can be announced.

If we haven’t announced a new project or if we haven’t announced a new policy, we cannot now announce it after the election notification is in. (There’s) Absolutely no bar whatsoever on implementing what is is already announced.”

The Bimal Jalan committee, set up to review the 27 applications, has given its views on the eligibility of candidates that include corporate bigwigs such as Anil Ambani-led Reliance Capital, Aditya Birla Nuvo as well as non-bank financial companies such as Shriram Finance, Religare, L&T Finance and IDFC.

Indications are that RBI may issue 4-5 licences to set up new banks. IDFC and south-based NGO Janalakshmi are considered strong candidates.

Chidambaram made it clear the government will continue to take regular decisions. “Cabinet meetings will take place right up to the end…Cabinet will clear proposals based on decisions on policies announced earlier,” Chidambaram said, adding that the Foreign Investment Promotion Board (FIPB) will also meet regularly to clear investment decisions.

“There is a code of conduct. We will observe that. But nowhere does the Election Commission say that government functioning should come to a halt,” he said.

However, experts say decisions on foreign direct investment in railways and the construction & housing sector could be delayed.
