Vote on Account 2014 an opportunity to reflect on last 5 years: Subir Gokarn

ET Now caught up with Subir Gokarn, former Deputy Governor of RBI, for his take on the upcoming vote on account and his macroeconomic outlook. Excerpts:

Mythili Bhusnurmath: Mr Yashwant Sinha, Mr Jaswant Singh as well as Pranab Mukherjee use the occasion of their interim budgets to hold forth on all that the government had done. Although the government would do if it were voted back to power, as Pranab said it is a wonderful platform for the government to sell itself, does anybody take any of this seriously especially in a country where even election manifestos are not really taken seriously? What is your take on that?

Subir Gokarn: Even programs are provided resources, but when money is made available, there is no guarantee that the department concerned or the ministry concerned will actually run with that money and actually implement the scheme. So it is basically a process where the government declares an intent in a regular budget, but execution depends on a variety of factors -- how other ministries react to the overall circumstances of the design of the project, the utility of it. The political significance of all of those factors matters.

Now the vote-on-account is essentially a farewell speech. In any farewell speech, the person, the meeting office is given an opportunity to reflect on his or her contributions, put them in a larger context, justify their actions. So I fully agree with Dr. Narayan’s distinction within budgetary process and rhetoric, but we have all become very used to budgets essentially being both practical statements and rhetorical statements and that is the culture, that is the convention which is quite useful to us.

Mythili Bhusnurmath: Even though the Finance Minister does tweak the indirect tax rates a little bit, is there any credibility at all to the numbers that he presents in for the next financial year because normally everybody’s focus is on one number – the fiscal deficit target as a ratio of the GDP. So agreed, most people assume particularly after the spectrum auctions that we have seen that he will succeed in achieving that 4.8% target, but even if he projects that next year he is going to do something very magical and get the fiscal deficit down to 4%, will anybody believe that? What would you as a former central banker be looking at?

Subir Gokarn: I do not think we have any basis to work on if there is a projection for the deficit, that is revenue receipts and the other receipts and expenditures. Those only have legitimacy when a duly elected government, whoever constitutes it, actually goes through a budget process so at best the indications of what might be if the same configuration were to come back to power, but even then election is a game changer, it is a disruptor. So you cannot expect even statements that are made in a closing speech, if you do not like though at farewell I will say closing. But the new Parliament, the new government, there may be different finance minister who knows even in the same configuration. So, it is a reflection of the last one year as a matter of formality.

The deficit number estimate for the current year, 2013-2014, is an issue. Did the government meet the target and as we are now seeing perhaps there is not much fear that it will not, but also it is an opportunity to reflect on the five years because there is an economic story there, some people will paint it very negatively, some people will paint it somewhat positively. So this is an opportunity to tell that story as a basis for the election. But what is being said about 2014-2015, whether on taxes or on deficits or on policies, is purely speculative, they have no predictive power, they have no basis on which anybody can make any commitment. So effectively we are in a fiscal limbo between now and July or whenever the next government presents its budget, whether it is the same configuration or somebody else.

Mythili Bhusnurmath: But I wanted to ask a question over here that there is nothing to prevent the government really from booking expenses on paper, but actually not putting it through the accounts and holding it forward for the next year. So the next government has to really live with it. What can we do if you remember of course it sounds like a catastrophic even, but the new Greek Government when it came to power discovered that the numbers were completely not correct at all, were way off the mark. Hopefully we have never had that situation in India and we never will, but can one really ensure that the numbers that we get in the budget are the correct numbers as they really are?

Subir Gokarn: Well, the most significant check in balance from this is the outgoing government’s expectation that it will come back to power. So you are talking about a scotched earth kind of approach which is no hope of us ever getting back into power. So let’s us do whatever we can, go out with the bang and let the next guy pay the price, but that is not the way it works here. Every government, as you yourself said, goes into an election with some expectation that it will come back to power and when it does that, there is an inconsistence between what you are suggesting and the situation that it expects to deal with when it comes back into office. So there is a self preservation element to it.

It says that do not screw up the situation such that if we have to deal with it, we are stuck. This is a disciplining force which has served us very well and really reflects the sort of strength of the rule-based system, the constitutional system which has this built in incentive that no government will ever be tempted to mug things up so that the next one has really difficult time dealing with it. Perhaps in Greece it was a matter of desperation, there was not any sort of political vision there, it was just a matter of dealing with the situation which has got out of hand. I do not think we are in that situation at least fiscally right now. So to me the scenario you describe is not a very likely one.

Mythili Bhusnurmath: How good a watchdog is the Reserve Bank of India?

Subir Gokarn: Well, there were hawks, doves, owls and now the dogs. So you will be running the entire sort of flora and fauna gamut here, but as Dr Narayan says, I do not think it is a matter of RBI specifically. There is a basic constitutional system, structure in place which does basically prevent the kind of behaviour you are describing. If it is not the RBI, it is all of you, it is all of us constantly commenting, observing, criticising, behaviour by government, actions by government which we perceived not to be in the larger public interest and it is not a risk that anybody wants to take because, as I said, ultimately there is nobody in this game who is playing it with either no desire or no expectation of winning. So that to me is the ultimate alignment of incentives. I have, therefore, very little concern that we ever end up in a situation where a vote on account becomes grandstanding.

Read more at:
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/opinion/interviews/vote-on-account-2014-an-opportunity-to-reflect-on-last-5-years-subir-gokarn/articleshow/30341167.cms?utm_source=contentofinterest&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=cppst