Narendra Modi hopes to brew success with 'chai pe charcha' from February 12

NEW DELHI: The BJP on Tuesday announced what it termed the 2014 version of the rath yatra, a mass contact programme called Chai Pe Charcha (talk over tea), which would take their PM candidate Narendra Modi to the site of most political discussions in India, the ubiquitous tea stall by the wayside.

Leader of the Opposition Sushma Swaraj emphasised that the programme would be to the party what LK Advani’s rath yatras were in the past, an outreach programme.

"In our country, most political discussions happen at these tea stalls, therefore the idea is to engage in discussions at that site. Either Modi or any other senior party leader would reach at least 1,000 tea stalls at the same time every five days through the use of DTH, satellite, mobile phones, internet and social media," she said.

The idea is to set up TV sets where live interaction will be facilitated at select tea stalls. Swaraj hastened to add that tea wouldn’t be paid for by the party, but participants would have to buy it. "Each interaction would cover 300 towns at a go, across 27 states. We anticipate 10 rounds of these meetings, but these can extend to 12-15 rounds as well. In all, we aim to reach two crore people through this programme," she added.

The party also released a music video promoting the campaign. Citizens for Accountable Governance (CAG), the creative team behind the campaign, was founded in May last. Though the group was not part of the BJP, it had been organising campaign events for the party for a while now. Asked whether CAG had been ‘contracted’ to organise the events, Swaraj said although no contract had been handed out, the group decided to pitch in because of an ‘emotional connect’.

The party has been organising several mass outreach programmes, including gathering iron for a giant statue of Sardar Patel, collecting donations under a ‘one note, one vote’ programme, getting party president Rajnath Singh to personally call up and thank donors, and initiating a registration drive for first-time voters.

"The first chai programme will be held on February 12, and then one every five days after that. Modi will be in Ahmedabad for the first set of charcha, and after that will tie up, or other leaders will tie up, from wherever they are," Swaraj said.
