No problem with Narendra Modi as PM face: Ram Vilas Paswan's son

NEW DELHI: Ram Vilas Paswan's Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) on Monday looked to be inching closer to the BJP after the party's parliamentary board chairman and Paswan's son Chirag said he had no problem with Narendra Modi being prime ministerial candidate.

Appearing comfortable about a change of partners ahead of the 2014 polls, Chirag said the taint of 2002 Gujarat riots on Modi did not matter any more as the court had given a verdict in his favour.

Chirag said there was "distress" in LJP over the way the seat-sharing issue had been dragging with Congress and RJD.

Asked about Modi and whether LJP would have no problem with him in view of cases against him in connection with the 2002 riots, he said, "If the court has given its verdict and they say he (Modi) is clean, then I do not think it is an issue to talk about now."

LJP, which was part of the NDA government under Atal Bihari Vajpayee, had parted ways with the BJP following the Gujarat riots, though loss of the communications portfolio had also irked Paswan.

Chirag, however, said a final decision would be taken only after the party's parliamentary board met on the issue. He reiterated that nothing had been finalized. Sources, however, said Chirag and his uncle Pashupati Kumar Paras were in talks with BJP for a possible alliance and a decision could be expected in a day or two.

BJP MP Shahnawaz Hussain had called on the LJP chief a few days back while senior BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad had visited Paswan on January 14 on the occasion of Makar Sankranti. LJP leader Surajbhan Singh was quoted by agencies on Sunday that a pact with the BJP was almost final.

LJP has been upset with Congress and RJD for promising it not more than 4-5 seats in the impending alliance whereas it had demanded no less than nine seats. Senior LJP leaders had earlier threatened that if Congress did not take a quick decision, it would keep its alliance options open. In this light, it is also being suggested that the latest move by the LJP may be a pressure tactic to make RJD and Congress acquiesce to its demands.

The utterances, however, have caused obvious jitters in the RJD which, looking to resurrect its fortunes this elections, faced a double whammy with a split in its state unit. RJD chief Lalu Prasad on Monday urged Paswan through the media not to join hands with "communal forces" and remain with him to "save the nation". He also said the seat-sharing issue was no "big deal" and could be worked out with LJP.

Lalu said he had made every effort to contact Paswan after reading reports on a possible LJP-BJP alliance but failed. "I just called up his home. His PS says he does not know where Paswan is. What kind of PA is he who does not know the whereabouts of his boss?" he asked addressing the media.

BJP president Rajnath Singh, however, was evasive on the issue, saying he was "not aware of what kind of talks" were taking place with LJP. Asked if there would be any decision soon, he said, "If some announcement has to be made, you will be told."

Congress, on its part, played down the development and media stories as speculative. "If at all there is anything that is playing out in the public space, my instant reaction would be that it is completely and purely speculative," I&B minister Manish Tewari said.

Referring to Paswan, Tewari said the person who chose to walk out of a government on the question of Gujarat riots would find it hard to take a U-turn on that position considering that issues arising out of the incidents of 2002 continue to remain unaddressed, especially the question of justice for the victims.

Tewari was quoted by agencies as saying that Paswan had chosen to walk out when a large number of other people with similar apprehensions had chosen to stay with the NDA.

