Govt tries to reach out to electorate ahead of Lok Sabha polls 2014, okays 30 proposals

NEW DELHI: The Union Cabinet and the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs (CCEA) cleared nearly 30 proposals and policies on Friday in a marathon sitting just days before the Election Commission’s model code of conduct is likely to kick in ahead of the upcoming Lok Sabha polls.

The clearances, many of which appear to mark the government’s final attempt to reach out to critical sections of the electorate, signify, perhaps, the busiest single day for the Congress-led coalition government even as the final burst of decision-making was more extensive in the run-up to the general elections during its first term.

Yet, for a government battling the charge of policy paralysis, perhaps the most important decision was the one that it did not take: to withdraw the conciliation offer to British telecom operator Vodafone as per a finance ministry proposal. The Cabinet also deferred a decision on the antigraft ordinances being pushed by Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi, but persons familiar with the matter indicated that these could be taken up on Saturday.

The Cabinet, chaired by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, raised the dearness allowance to 100% of basic salary from 90%, benefiting 50 lakh central government employees and 30 lakh pensioners. It also approved the terms of reference of the 7th Pay Commission, setting in motion the decadal revision in salaries and pension.

The CCEA approved financial support to ailing state-run companies such as HMT Machine Tools, ITI and Hindustan Paper, a move that will help these firms clear salary dues of their employees and launch revival plans. A proposal of a minimum monthly pension of Rs 1,000 to pensioners of the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO)_also received a goahead from the Cabinet.

The Election Commission is expected to announce the schedule of the upcoming elections next week. The Cabinet has also recommended President’s rule in Andhra Pradesh. There was no proposal on the Cabinet’s agenda to raise the retirement age of government employee to 62 from 60 now, a government official said. However, the Cabinet cleared a proposal of the Election Commission to raise expenditure limits for Lok Sabha elections to a maximum of Rs 70 lakh and a minimum of Rs 54 lakh, allowing candidates to spend more on their poll campaigns. Expenditure limits for assembly elections will be raised to a maximum of Rs 28 lakh and a minimum of Rs 20 lakh in northeastern and hill states.

The CCEA cleared extension of a few welfare schemes to the 12th Plan, changes in the urea investment policy and a modified new urea pricing policy, financial assistance for a clutch of sick state-run companies to meet their salary dues, a seawater desalination plant in Chennai and a new rail coach manufacturing unit at Kolar in Karnataka. The government has increased the number of guaranteed workdays from 100 to 150 families under the flagship employment scheme, Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act for Scheduled Tribes, benefiting 1.6 lakh tribal families in Maoist-affected areas.

The CCEA also approved the proposal of the department of disability affairs to provide accessible mobile phones to visually-impaired students of 18 years and above only once in five years and to provide laptop, Braille Notetaker and Brailler to disabled school students in 10th standard and above once in 10 years.

