Vote On Account 2014: Interim budget not aimed at winning votes, says Swaminathan Aiyar

ET Now caught up with Swaminathan Aiyar, consulting editor, The Economic Times, for his take on the Vote on Account 2014. Excerpts:

ET Now: What is your review of the policies announced during the vote on account?

Swaminathan Aiyar: Well, we have had this vote on account and it was expected to be a bit of non-event. It is not a non-event. There has been a significant amount of duty cuts and it is also interesting that the duty cuts are not aimed at the aam aadmi. They are not aimed at trying to win votes, but they are aimed at trying to revive the economy, especially on capital goods, consumer non-durables.

Some people might say this means an additional load on the next government as far as the fiscal deficit is concerned. He has duly done so. Instead of 4.8 per cent, it is 4.6 per cent; and instead of 4.2 for the next year, it is 4.1 per cent.

Frankly, he cannot speak for the next year. All the projections for the next year are pretty meaningless. Nevertheless, he has given a long swan song on all the great things that they have done in the last 10 years. All I can say, that is a great disappointment. After having done 9 per cent for so many years to 6 per cent sounds pathetic as a swan song.

The real question is why we have fallen from 9 to 6 per cent, even when we have a pretty substantial savings and investment rate? On the popular side, he has announced very little give away -- something on defence pensions, something on education loans, it is small.

Hence, very clearly, this is a budget not aimed at winning votes, it is aimed at preventing a downgrade, about getting credibility, preventing any large outflow of dollars out of India, improving business confidence and saying I hope history will not treat me too harshly. However, this long list of achievements is not going to convince many people.

ET Now: Is this vote on account full of populist statements?

Swaminatha Aiyar: No, the populist measures are very minor. I would say the two key measures are on defence pensions (one rank, one pension scheme), and the other is on the student loans, worth Rs 2,600 crore. These are modest sums of reliefs, although he claims there are nine lakh students, which is a significant number. I wonder whether they are above 18 and have the right to vote.

If you compare this with Jaswant Singh’s vote on account back in 2014, Singh cut excise duty on a long list of items. Compared with what other guys have done, this was minor tinkering.

In fact, if you say where are the main changes, it has been on things like auto and capital goods. Hence, this vote on account is aimed at the aam manufacturer and not the aam aadmi.
