First List: Congress tries balancing itself on all poll planks

NEW DELHI: Just a day after the Congress announced its first list of 194 candidates for the Lok Sabha, it suffered an embarrassment when its nominee for the Bhind reserved seat in Madhya Pradesh, Bhagirath Prasad, jumped ship and joined the Bharatiya Janata Party. This led to muttering about how those in charge of state party affairs could have been blind to Prasad's connections with the rival camp.

To be sure, the list reflects the thinking and attitude of the leadership ahead of what will be a tough election.

The AICC naming 50 candidates in Uttar Pradesh in the first list makes it official that efforts to try and put together an alliance with the Mayawati-led BSP have not succeeded. The party has fielded candidates in 13 of 21 BSP seats such as Saharanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Aligarh, Sitapur, Misrikh, Hamirpur, Phulpur, Basti, Deoria, Lalganj and Ghosi. The first list also has Congress candidates in over half a dozen SP seats and some BJP seats as well.

This means the stage is set for a four-cornered fight among SP, BSP, Congress and BJP in Indian's largest state. Interestingly, Congress is holding off from naming its candidate for Varanasi amid an tussle in the BJP camp between prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi and Murli Manohar Joshi for the seat.

The re-nomination of almost all sitting Congress MPs in the first list did not come as a surprise. The thinking within the leadership is that Congress should ride on the influence of the maximum number of sitting MPs rather than deny them tickets and turn them into disgruntled elements with damage potential. At the same time, the party has also attempted to appease the youth constituency, something that Rahul Gandhi has been trying to tap for a long time, before the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) emerged as a claimant for that growing segment.

About 35% of the Congress candidates in the first list are below the age of 50. The party has also tried to woo another key segment, women, by giving them around 15% representation in the first list.

In Bihar, the Congress has announced its candidates for 10 out of 13 seats where the party is contesting in alliance with RJD, which will be fighting 26 seats. However, the Bihar Congress is already confronting a brewing rebellion among some of its leaders who are unhappy on account of being either denied tickets or the party settling for a "bad deal" with Lalu Prasad.

Former Pradesh Congress Committee chief Mahaboob Ali Kaisar and senior leader Avadh Kumar Singh are already threatening to quit the party. Congress Legislature Party leader Sadanad Singh has also conveyed his unhappiness to the party high command.

Attention has also been drawn by some of the high-profile candidates in the list, who some believe have a good chance of winning. They include former Infosys chief and head of the unique ID project Nandan Nilekani, cricketer Mohamed Kaif and Bhojpuri film star Ravi Kishan. The choice of Amita Singh, wife of Amethi 'raja' Sanjay Singh, to stand against Varun Gandhi in Sultanpur means that Sanjay Gandhi's son could be given a tough fight.

A party official said the first list is "the easy part" as it mostly contains non-controversial seats or those that are not politically contentious. The wider political message will emerge from the names chosen for the remaining 300-plus seats, party officials said.
