Arvind Kejriwal to highlight polluted Ganga, sewer & plight of weavers in his Varanasi campaign

VARANASI: The battle for the Varanasi seat might have serious national implications, but the Aam Aadmi Party’s campaign for this constituency will be one centred purely on local issues. With Arvind Kejriwal set to take on BJP’s prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi, his core team of volunteers — a mix of experienced hands pulled out from the Delhi cadre and youngsters from eastern UP — has decided to highlight the river, sewer and weaver in his campaign.

Two of AAP’s most senior leaders, Gopal Rai and Sanjay Singh, will be the key generals of the campaign and will base themselves in Varanasi for most of the election season once polling in Delhi is over.

According to a senior leader who spoke to ET on condition of anonymity, a large chunk of the capital’s volunteers along with the party’s winning candidates or MLAs from the Delhi elections will "shift base to Varanasi" after April 10.

According to Singh, the level of pollution in the Ganga, which is the lifeline of Varanasi, the poor living conditions of the weaver community and the abysmal state of the sewer system are some of the biggest problems faced by the people of the town and will strike a chord with them. But AAP is not just banking on this for an effective strategy. It has already marshaled an army of footsoldiers to start executing this through a door-todoor campaign and public meetings.

Varanasi Lok Sabha constituency has five assembly segments, of which three are urban, Varanasi North, Varanasi South and Varanasi Cantonment, while the other two, Sevapuri and Rohaniya, are rural. According to Adarsh Shastri, who is also involved in planning Kejriwal’s campaign, AAP has already appointed a convenor and teams of 15 to 20 volunteers for each of the 90 wards across the three urban assembly seats.

"The remaining two seats are made up of 45 panchayats and we have assigned five to six volunteers for each panchayat," added Shastri. Kejriwal will camp in this constituency for almost a month after polling in Delhi, with half that time to be spent campaigning for AAP leader Kumar VIshwas, who is contesting against Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi in Amethi.

RsThe remaining time he’ll be in Varanasi doing road shows and attending public meetings to ensure he has a people connect, unlike Modi," said Gopal Mohan, a party volunteer who headed Kejriwal’s victorious campaign against former Delhi CM Shiela Dikshit.

According to Shastri, the party does not expect the Varanasi campaign to cost much. "Arvind fought Delhi elections in `3 lakh. Even if we spend five times this amount for his Lok Sabha campaign, we don’t expect it to cost more than Rs 20 lakh," he said. The new expenditure limit fixed by the Election Commission for the Lok Sabha poll is Rs 70 lakh for most seats.

