Narendra Modi needles Congress; says Pranab Mukherjee should have been PM after Indira Gandhi

NEW DELHI: In a direct accusation at Congress, BJP's Prime Ministerial candidate Narendra Modi on Wednesday said that Pranab Mukherjee should have been the Prime Minister after Indira Gandhi. "When Indira ji was killed, Rajiv Gandhi was in Kolkata. Democracy entails senior most Minister (Pranab ji) should have been PM," Modi said.

"It would have been better that Pranab ji would have become PM. But no, that did not happen and Pranab Da was not taken in the Ministry," Modi hit out. Modi once again accused Congress of practising 'divisive' politics.

Modi also rubbished the idea of a 'Third Front' for the 2014 general elections. "Third Front will make India Third Grade and we need to reject them forever," Modi said. "Development in the Eastern part of India cannot be slow. It must match the development in the other parts of the nation," Modi said. "In the Western side, none of the Third Front people have ruled. It is different here and result is lack of development," Modi added.

Addressing a rally in Kolkata, Modi appealed to the crowd to make BJP win all Lok Sabha seats from Kolkata. "You have already voted for Mamata ji as your CM. She will work for development. When BJP comes at the centre, I will supplement those efforts, And we already have Pranab ji as the President," Modi said. "To change the fortune of West Bengal, the state government is not enough. You need centre's support," Modi said, while projecting BJP as the solution.

"Today I want to talk to the people of West Bengal directly...nothing should come between us. You bid farewell to those who ruined West Bengal for 35 years. That was a very good start," Modi said. "But I also want to ask has the Parivartan come? Can you feel the change," he questioned.

Modi promised that if BJP is elected at the centre in the 2014 polls his government will ensure that there is 24*7 electricity in Kolkata. "Power houses are closed because of the government at centre. There is no coal. Only 35% schools have access to electricity," Modi said. "How will children learn the latest technologies through computer education without electricity supply," Modi asked.

Quoting Rabindranath Tagore, Modi said that true fearlessness can only be attained when one is reassured of security and safety. "Indians are proud, we only ask for empowerment through health and employment opportunities. In this 21st century, we all must get free and unhindered access to knowledge," Modi quoted.

Modi went on to say that for him, 'Nation first' is the only religion. "My definition of secularism is very clear. The sole religion of the Government is Nation First, the holy book is the Constitution," he said.

According to Modi, it is the common man of the country that has set the agenda for the elections of 2014. "60 years have gone by. People feel that enough is enough. No one can wait, a lot of unfulfilled promises were made," Modi hit out.
