No firm evidence of young voters being game-changers in 2014 polls: Swaminathan Aiyar

ET Now: It is a long drawn-out electoral process that we heard yesterday. There will be nine-phased polling. What is your take on the most-lengthy electoral exercise conducted by the Election Commission ever and does any block, formation or party get an edge because of this long drawn-out process?

Swaminathan S Anklesaria Aiyar: I would say that it would give an edge only to any party that benefited from developments in this period. Normally, if you had elections on one single day, what would matter would be what had happened before that particular election date or in the run-up to it. Now, all kinds of things might happen in between.

There might be an international incident in some developing country, or there might be a run on emerging markets. All kinds of things can happen in this particular period. So it introduces these uncertainties. Most of these uncertainties would relate to impacts of external events, rather than something that happened here.

However, events could happen here as well. For instance, suppose there is an event of terrorism. Say, there is another attack on Mumbai. In such cases you will see how things can be turned around. For instance, another attack on Mumbai would surely strengthen Narendra Modi enormously.

Therefore, many things could happen over such a long period, but we cannot anticipate what they would be and we cannot anticipate which party will benefit.

ET Now: We have had new enrolments before elections. Is it the right time for fresh enrolments so close to the elections and will these new voters be the potential game-changers, given the zeal around Narendra Modi and Arvind Kejriwal?

Swaminathan S Anklesaria Aiyar: There is no firm evidence yet that their voting patterns will be so different from that of older people that it would transform the situation, or be a game-changer. We would have to examine the evidence very carefully after the elections to see what actually happened and in practice, I do not think we have very good polls telling us what the difference is in voting patterns of different age groups.

Somebody would need to do a research on that to be quite sure. In the absence of that, I will say that there is a huge enthusiasm of young people for, as you said, Kejriwal and Modi. The enthusiasm with Kejriwal was hugely responsible for the AAP's victory in Delhi.

We do not know whether it can be repeated somewhere else and yet it was in some sense an important contributor. You can argue that not only youngsters, everybody including Swaminathan Aiyar was so fed up with the corruption that we welcomed some new change.

So it was not limited to the youngsters, but the youngsters certainly helped to get out and mobilise voters and to that extent, anybody who can enthuse the youngsters to be a part of their campaign will benefit.

I regret to say that the sad old Congress cannot enthuse anybody. It has no volunteers and even their so-called volunteers have to be paid Rs 500 a day. So obviously, they will not be able to take advantage of this surge in youth voters.

ET Now: There is a certain sense of disillusionment with the political class. There are many arguments for and against the ‘None of the Above’ (NOTA) option. It will be available for the first time in the Lok Sabha as well. Voters did not use it in the state assembly elections. Will they use it in the Lok Sabha polls now?

Swaminathan S Anklesaria Aiyar: No, they will not. I have never heard of any country where it has been widely used. Imagine making all the effort to go out there only to say ‘none of the above’. For most people, if you want ‘none of the above’, you just would not go. So, I do not think you will get a significant turnout in that.

ET Now: Rs 40 lakh is the cap on expenditure for the Lok Sabha elections. Is that realistic? Is that money enough to contest the Lok Sabha polls, when billions of rupees are blown away in a mere municipal election?

Swaminathan S Anklesaria Aiyar: Till now we do not know the answer, because it has never been put to test. Parties have been routinely spending crores. Now we have the Aam Aadmi Party, and we can trust the Aam Aadmi Party to be honest on its accounts, and it has shown that in various places, it has fought elections within Rs 40 lakh.

It is going to contest 100 constituencies and if it wins a fair number of them, that would be a strong argument to think money is not everything.

The kind of spending that you are getting by political parties are on all kinds of things, which are in no sense fundamental to democracy, like distributing free liquor and free sarees and paying off various people, telling them, if you have a football club or a table tennis club, we will pay you this much, if your people vote for us. So every little group is posing as some kind of a vote bank to be bought off.

Therefore, this is not consistent with the proper norms of democracy. If the Aam Aadmi Party can demonstrate the ability to win elections within Rs 40 lakh, I think that will send a message.

ET Now: Now the model code of conduct kicks in. What decisions will it hit? Is it safe to assume that all of big reforms now will be on the backburner?

Swaminathan S Anklesaria Aiyar: What you can have is all the decisions which involve implementation of existing rules and norms. Many, many decisions have to be taken, but they cannot on the basis of new policies.

There have been decisions based on old policies and the only difference that would come up is if there is some kind of an emergency. In such a scenario, obviously you cannot expect the government to sit down and say I cannot do anything.

However, we do not really expect an emergency. So I do not think that there is going to be a problem. Basically, there is going to be complete inactivity all the way till May 16.