I back Modi as can’t trust leaders with a learner’s licence: Kiran Bedi
NEW DELHI: Former police officer and anti-corruption crusader Kiran Bedi says she is rooting for Narendra Modi as PM because she doesn’t trust anyone with a “learner’s licence” to run a country of 1.2 billion people.

“He (Modi) has not only survived but thrived against Herculean odds. He is the most-legally scrutinised and targeted politician today. Currently Modi is the best candidate for PM. As an independent, my vote is for him! (Not by default but by positive preference). We cannot have a person with a learner's licence trying to drive the nation at the cost of more than a billion plus. I dread that,” she told ET, without elaborating.

She hit out at the Aam Aadmi Party again for being a “live in partner” with Congress, but warned her former comrade at India Against Corruption – Kejriwal – against Congress’s efforts to drill holes in his political entity.

“What incurred AAP’s wrath was when I said I suspect hereafter a vote for AAP is like a vote for Congress and vice versa,” she said referring to the spate of attacks against her on social media sites.

“Team Kejriwal broke away from Team Anna saying dharnas give you nothing and hence they need to be given up! He has returned to those same ways within weeks in power,” she said. Bedi added she has never expressed her willingness to enter politics. “Instead I have respectfully declined several invitations for political space for a long time. Because I am not a political person,” she said. Anna Hazare had recently said that Bedi could contest polls if she wished to do so.

Bedi, a close associate of Hazare, sparked a debate more than a month ago when she publicly praised Modi. “I see him (Modi) as a hands-on political leader who instills confidence as a doer,” she had told ET. Her statement gave rise to speculation that Team Anna was gravitating towards BJP following the AAP accepting outside support from Congress to form a government in Delhi.
