BJP confident of getting clear majority: Rajnath Singh on Lok Sabha polls

RAIPUR: With Election Commission announcing the dates for the Lok Sabha polls today, BJP president Rajnath Singh said his party was prepared for the upcoming elections and aims to win a clear majority on its own strength.

"The Election Commission has declared polling schedule and we are confident of a fair election. Our party is confident of attaining a clear majority looking to the huge participation of people in our party's rallies across the nation," Singh said here at the Raipur airport.

He was in Chhattisgarh to address his party workers' convention in Kanker and Durg.

"We are prepared and our effort is to win at least 272 seats on our own strength," he further said.

However, there will be the participation of our allies on government formation at the Centre, he said, when asked about the role of allies in National Democratic Alliance (NDA).

On declaration of contestants' names for 11 seats in Chhattisgarh, he said, the party's election committee has already started announcing the nominees with the first meeting of BJP's central election committee on February 27.

The next meeting of the party's election committee is scheduled on March 8 and soon a decision will be taken on other candidates, he said.

To a query on his party's performance in the coming general elections in Uttar Pradesh, he said, "minimum 50 seats will be won by BJP in UP."

Meanwhile, he also condemned and rejected a news published in an English daily claiming that veteran leader LK Advani had reportedly made an observation that the BJP was being dominated by one leader, during February 27 meeting of the party's central election committee.

On being sought to comment on the news, Singh said, "It was completely baseless. Being the president of the party I completely reject this news. I was myself present in that meeting. The issue was neither discussed during the election committee meeting nor outside the meeting."

I hope the newspaper which has published this news will issue a rejoinder in this connection, he added.
