Not bound to support Janlokpal Bill in Delhi Assembly: Vinod Kumar Binny

NEW DELHI: Expelled AAP MLA Vinod Kumar Binny today said he will support the Janlokpal Bill in Delhi Assembly only if it is in line with Anna Hazare's draft and insisted that he would not be bound by any party whip on the issue.

The rebel MLA also targeted the Assembly Speaker over a communication on his voting status in the House after being expelled by his party.

Binny said that he has recently asked Speaker M S Dhir about his voting rights on Jan Lokpal Bill, which may be tabled tomorrow.

"I yesterday received letter from Speaker's side with reference to my letter, in which he has given the reference of Supreme Court 1996 order stating that even if the political party, on whose ticket a member is elected to the House, expels the member, he will continue to belong to that party," Binny told reporters outside Assembly.

Binny said that the Speaker has also cited in his letter apex court's 1996 order in accordance of which he will also be considered as AAP MLA, even after expulsion by the party.

"But he (Speaker) didn't mention "newly" Supreme Court 2010 order in letter which has stayed 1996 order, and the matter has been referred to a larger bench for hearing.

"There is no provision that an MLA, who has been expelled from the party, continues to support party," Binny said.

He also said that he has sent a letter to Speaker demanding a clarification.

"In my letter, I've given a 24-hour period to the Speaker. If he doesn't come out with his clarification, I will then move court in the regard," he said.

Asked if he will support Jan Lokpal Bill in Assembly, Binny said, "I have not seen a copy of this bill. If this is the bill Anna Hazare had demanded, I will then support it."

He, however, insisted that he is not bound to vote in favour of government.

Meanwhile, scores of Congress MLAs and former legislators today sat on dharna outside the Assembly premises demanding that Arving Kejriwal government fullfill all promises made to people during the city election.

"Kejriwal has failed to fullfill all promises made to people. AAP-led government's decision to provide 700 leter free water is just an eyewash.

"Government should have announced 50 per cent power bill waiver for all Delhiresidents. Instead CM has chosen selective persons for it," former Congress MLA Raj Kumar said.

Congress leaders also raised slogans against the CM. Asked if the they would withdraw support to the government, another Congress leader Ashok Walia said that their party had given outside support to government on 18-action points related to public.

"They (government) are not following the Constitution. If they Hadn't bypassed Centre's prior approval in tabling Bill, we would have respected government's stand.

"Kejriwal is running away from his responsibility by offering resignation if Jan Lokpal Bill is not passed," Walia told reporters here.

Congress leaders also demanded the resignation of Law Minister Somenath Bharti for his midnight raid in Khirki Extension area.

