Vote On Account 2014: This is an election-oriented budget, says Punita Kumar Sinha, Pacific Paradigm Advisors

In a chat with ET Now, Punita Kumar Sinha, Pacific Paradigm Advisors, speaks on the Vote on Account 2014. Excerpts:

ET Now: How do you think will foreign investors read this? Is the worst now behind us on the macros?

Punita Kumar Sinha: The budget is contrary to what we have heard. The budget is focused towards elections and it has tried to appease many different constituencies -- whether it is the rural, whether it is the defence forces, whether it is the youth. More importantly, it has also tried to appease the corporate sector. The sector is appreciating that and some of it is to do with the fact that he has balanced the needs of many people. Hence, it is an election-oriented budget.

With respect to the investors, if you look at the industrials, they have taken a big beating this year. The valuations of the cyclicals, capital goods, autos and sectors like these are quite attractive. However, there has been no catalyst to drive them to better valuations. This does give some kind of a catalyst towards these beaten down sectors where the valuations are attractive. Hence, there could be some short-term benefit that we might see in those sectors from an investor’s perspective.

Mythili Bhusnurmath: How much sanctity can we really attach to the budget arithmetic? How difficult is it going to be for the next finance minister?

Punita Kumar Sinha: The fiscal year is ending. So they can achieve the numbers and push everything out till next year. The next year’s 4.1 is clearly anyone’s guess. I do not think the markets would also look at and take this 4.1% number too seriously because I don’t know if it is even achievable.

The point you made on taxes is very important because if you look at tax to GDP in India, it is very low compared to a lot of other economies, and the trend has been downwards in the last several years. With these further cuts in indirect taxes, there has been nothing in the budget.

Mythili Bhusnurmath: Is Chidambaram a little worried about the QE effect as to what the tapering would do?

Punita Kumar Sinha: The announcements were not very clear because having traded in both GDR and ADRs, GDR really have become fairly insignificant for most investors and the volumes are very low. Hence, some rationalisation is good, but it was not very clear what he is actually going to do to improve things for ADR and GDR investors and for FII in general.

I agree with you that FIIs will come based on how the economy does, how the valuations are and how India compares to other markets. It is really FDI that India does need to attract. For that, he has talked about the manufacturing sector and skill development, that is very important for FDI. The focus on that is important and that has been addressed to some extent.
