BJP helped in Nitish Kumar's rise, it will plot his fall: Sushil Modi

The Narendra Modi factor and anti-incumbency sentiment will help the BJP better its performance from Bihar in the Lok Sabha elections, says former deputy chief minister and senior BJP leader Sushil Kumar Modi. There is no harm in considering a new partner if that helps consolidate votes, he tells Ashok K Mishra, referring to BJP’s talks with the Lok Janshakti Party. Edited excerpts.

Latest opinion polls show a downward trend in BJP’s likely tally in Bihar. Is this the reason why BJP is talking to the LJP?


One thing is clear: the BJP is ahead of all other political combinations of different parties. There are still two months to go for the polls and we still have time to consolidate but what is important for us, the popular mood is overwhelmingly in our favour and our performance will be much-much better than what has been in the past.

As far as our alliance with any new party is concerned, it is no harm if we engage a new partner for consolidating the vote bank as our target is to win all the 40 Lok Sabha seats in Bihar. In politics, one plus one does not mean only two, it can be eleven as well. We have tied up with the Rashtriya Lok Samata Party and if we rope in another party as an ally, it will only help consolidate the NDA’s vote bank.

The single biggest factor will be Narendra Modi who is seen as a strong leader who can bring change. There is no village in Gujarat where you will find people from Bihar not working. They have been highly impressed with the development works taking place in Gujarat and so when they are in Bihar, they rave about the growth story of that state and this will influence the voters in a big way. The people are also angry with (Bihar Chief Minister) Nitish Kumar because he severed his ties with the BJP. Besides, the UPA government’s insipid performance will go in favour of the BJP.

Was Modi’s candidature so important for BJP to break an unbeatable alliance with JD(U)?

In the first place, we did not walk out of the alliance. It was Nitish Kumar who snapped the ties. It is true though that the BJP had no leader other than Modi who is so popular. No other BJP leader could have attracted such a massive support like Modi. Modi’s ap peal stretches beyond the BJP’s political outreach. So, Modi’s projection was the best bet for the BJP.

Could the Party have waited for the Lok Sabha election results to declare the PM candidate?

Such a need did not arise because Nitish Kumar did not want that a strong BJP leader like Modi should be made the PM candidate. He wanted a weak BJP leader and he therefore opposed Modi’s candidature. The BJP leadership was initially of course in two minds whether it should name the candidate before or after the elections but it finally decided to come out with the name. Otherwise, it would have led to conflicting signals over the leadership question.

Can BJP go beyond 20 per cent votes in Bihar without the help of an ally?

This election will go beyond the calculations of religion and caste arithmetic. It will be like the 1977 Lok Sabha elections and the 2010 state assembly elections when people voted ignoring caste and religious sentiments. People this time will shun caste loyalties and will vote for BJP so that Modi is anointed as the PM.

Does the party have social groups beyond its upper caste and the bania combination to prop it up?

This is the traditional image about the BJP. But I must tell you out of the 91 MLAs, more than 70 per cent of the legislators belong to OBC, MBC, Dalits and Mahadalits. The BJP has already exploded this myth in Bihar.

Do you think the state government will compete its term?

We will not topple the government. But it may fall due to internal revolt within JD(U) after the Lok Sabha elections if an NDA government is formed at the Centre. A number of JD(U) legislators are really angry because of Nitish’s decision to snap ties with the BJP. But take this word from me, the rise of Nitish was because of the BJP and now his downfall will be because of the BJP. His efforts for a third or fourth front will be a non-starter.
