General elections 2014: BJP inching towards pact with Asom Gana Parishad in Assam

GUWAHATI: An ally a day almost seems like BJP's aim. After rapping up an alliance with Ram Vilas Paswan's Lok Janshakthi Party on Thursday, BJP was on the verge of striking a deal with the Asom Gana Parishad (AGP). If the deal goes through, this will be NDA's first ally in the northeast for the upcoming Lok Sabha elections. However, the BJP state unit is opposed to the alliance.

BJP has offered five of Assam's 14 seats to AGP, a source said. The parties had a pact for the 2009 polls, which worked well for BJP as it won four seats, the highest from the state. AGP's central executive body has authorised president Prafulla Kumar Mahanta and working president Atul Bora to make the final decision on electoral alliances. Both AGP and BJP have had several rounds of discussions.

"Four AGP leaders are camping in New Delhi to finalise the nitty-gritty of seat-sharing," a senior AGP leader said on condition of anonymity. "AGP has been offered Koliabor, Tezpur, Kokrajhar, Barpeta and Dibhu seats. The party however wants one more - either Guwahati or Mangaldoi," the source said.

BJP is not ready to part with either Guwahati or Mangaldoi as it has sitting MPs. Mahanta said his party was open to alliances. "But till now, we have not entered into an alliance with any political party," he told ET . BJP's state unit has opposed the alliance stating that AGP was a spent force, as repeated electoral debacles have shown.BJP has strengthened its base in the state and had put an impressive show in the district council polls. Local BJP leaders insist that it would be better if the party goes to poll on its own. Analysts feel an AGP-BJP tie-up will benefit BJP hugely as there will a concentration of anti-Congress votes. In the 2011 assembly polls, BJP and AGP fought separately and the results were disastrous for both. While BJP managed to win five seats, AGP got nine. In the 2004 Lok Sabha polls, where there was no alliance between BJP and AGP, the saffron party won only two seats. AGP got none.
Assam Chief Minister Tarun Gogoi said AGP and BJP have a long, hidden relationship. "Both know how to loot," he said.

