Mamata Banerjee releases her poll manifesto, vows to go for electoral reforms

KOLKATA: Mamata Banerjee has released her manifesto on Saturday for the coming lok sabha elections and vowed to carry out an electoral reforms so that the corrupt and the criminals do not become people's representatives. Releasing the manifest at her Kalighat residence, the chief minister also came down heavily on the BJP and said that all the three mainstream political forces---BJP, Congress and CPIM have lost their credibility and Trinamool Congress is the only alternative to the people for formation of a corruption-free government in Delhi.

"We believe that to reach the goal of corruption free politics, the time has come for the nation to adopt government funding of elections which is already functioning in many of the world, including U.K., Germany, France, Russian Republic, Canada, Brazil, Argentina, Thailand, Mexico, South Africa, Norway and Denmark," Mamata said, adding that she also believed in major juridical reforms and for the purpose, she proposed to set up a review committee for pro-people systematic changes in the judiciary.

Without naming the BJP prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi, Mamata has said that "some political parties are accepting donations from the members of the public to enable them to seat at the front row of their rallies to watch their leaders from a close proximity. "I can't think about doing such a thing," the West Bengal chief minister pointed out.

Reminding the people about her struggle against forcible land acquisition at Singur and Nandigram by the previous Left Front government in West Bengal, Mamata has said in her manifesto that she will not allow forcible land acquisition in any where in the country. "The Land Acquisition Act will be amended such that the legitimate interests of farmers will be fully protected. We have passed a Land Act in West Bengal which totally eliminates any scope for forcible acquisition of land by the government or any private entity. We will not allow any forceful acquisition of land in the country . A new land bank and land use policy will be put in place," Mamata said.
She also said that her party will implement "Banking For All " such that there will be no unbanked villages in the country. Opposing bifurcation of Andhra Pradesh to create a separate Telengana state, Mamata said "We are emphatic that bifurcation of states in India can take place only after such proposals in cleared by the concerned state government.

Keeping in mind the current Gorkhaland agitation in Darjeeling, Mamata also said in her manifesto that "the hill people of our nation need a helping hand. In addition to Seven Sisters and the other 3 hill states of North India, a Special Scheme will be introduced for the remaining hill people, including those of Darjeeling. "
