To take on Narendra Modi in Varanasi, Kejriwal's core team plans to replicate Delhi battle plan

NEW DELHI: Arvind Kejriwal is going to Varanasi — and his strategists hope to do a Delhi in Narendra Modi's constituency. Last December, Kejriwal had famously defeated Sheila Dikshit from her prestigious New Delhi assembly seat. To take on the far bigger challenge of battling Modi, Aam Aadmi Party will replicate the New Delhi strategy. For starters, AAP plans to source help from outside just like it did during Kejriwal's campaign in the New Delhi seat.

Apart from the local team already working in the Varanasi constituency, the party will also mobilise volunteers from across the country. According to Sanjeev Singh, AAP's convenor of the Poorvanchal zone in UP, over 150 volunteers from different states have already expressed their interest in joining his team in Varanasi to campaign for Kejriwal after the rally on March 25.

The party will also send some of its most efficient volunteers from Delhi after voting for its seven Lok Sabha seats is over on April 10. "Varanasi goes to poll in the last phase on May 12, which means the tried-and-tested cadre of Delhi will be free to help in the Varanasi campaign. We expect 400 to 500 of our volunteers from Delhi to move to the Varanasi seat after April 10," said AAP member Adarsh Shastri.

Help from Gujarat

Shastri is in charge of preparing the party's vision document for UP and is also involved in planning Kejriwal's campaign in the state.

Interestingly, the party is also sourcing help from Gujarat to campaign against its chief minister. "Kejriwal has been trying to expose Modi's claims on development in Gujarat. But when the people of Banaras hear the truth about Modi from Gujaratis themselves that will have a different impact," said Sanjeev Srivastav, secretary of AAP's Gujarat unit.

Inspired by AAP's Delhi strategy, the party's local units have already requested supporters in the Varanasi constituency to host the outsiders during the election season. "We do not have the money to fund their stay and food, so we have asked our supporters to accommodate the volunteers coming from other states," added Singh.

The party is also planning to replicate the rigour of its door-to-door campaign in the New Delhi seat for Varanasi. AAP's door-to-door campaign for Delhi elections marked a new trend in political canvassing in the country. During this period, party volunteers had visited almost 90% of the houses in Kejriwal's New Delhi constituency.

Although Lok Sabha seats are much larger in comparison, the party's focus, according to Singh, will be to visit as many families as possible in Varanasi.

Another strategy that worked for Kejriwal in his fight against Dikshit last year was his direct contact with voters of his constituency. AAP strategists say unlike Modi, who might not be able to spend much time in the UP constituency as he is contesting from two seats and also has a heavy national campaign schedule, Kejriwal can spend at least two weeks in the Varanasi constituency to establish a connect with voters.

"Unlike Modi who only addresses rallies, Arvind is not separated from his voters by several barricades. The idea is to have many roadshows and jan sabhas (public meetings) while Arvind is camping in his constituency," said Gopal Mohan, who was Kejriwal's campaign manager for New Delhi and is also involved in planning his campaign for Varanasi.

