Gujarat development media story: Arvind Kejriwal

NAGPUR: Unfazed by the attack over his comments on media, AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal continued to target the media saying it was a political conspiracy to indulge in a propaganda on the Gujarat model of development to project Narendra Modi.

"Some media people have decided to project Modi. A story is being made that Gujarat has developed. It is a political conspiracy. This is a kind of political propaganda about the Gujarat model," he said.

He also attacked Modi over the Gujarat riots and said that it was difficult to remove those taints.

"How will you (Modi) clean the Gujarat riots taints," he asked.

Kejriwal was addressing a rally here at the conclusion of his three-day road show in Maharashtra. AAP leader Anjali Damania is taking on former BJP President Nitin Gadkari.

He asked his supporters whether action should be taken against them (the media) or not, hours after his threat to jail media created a nationwide controversy.

"TV debate in going on over my statement that we will jail them (the media). Where have we threatened them? We are small people. Media says Modi is an alternative... Modi is for development and education is flourishing and corruption has been eliminated in Gujarat," he added.

Attacking Modi's development model, Kejriwal said contrary to the claims made by Gujarat Chief Minister, corruption is rampant in the state with cases of farmers' suicide and lack of education and health services. Despite this, the media was spreading misinformation, he said.

"Many (AAP) teams visited 26 districts of Gujarat and what they saw was shocking... total white lies. No work is done without taking money. One has to pay Rs 5000 for getting driving licence. Unemployment is high. If a DySP has to seek a transfer he has to pay Rs 2.75 crore," he claimed.

Kejriwal added that land is being taken from farmers and given to Ambanis and Adanis at Re 1 per sq m and more than 800 farmers have committed suicide over this and over 60,000 small scale and medium size enterprises have shut down in the past 11 years.
