Don't be swayed by Congress' propaganda against Narendra Modi: Parkash Singh Badal to Muslims

LUDHIANA: Punjab Chief Minister Parkash Singh Badal exhorted the Muslim community not to get swayed by the "malicious propaganda" of the Congress regarding BJP's prime ministerial candidate Narendra Modi.

"Sensing their inevitable defeat, the Congress party is leaving no stone unturned to create a fear in the minds of minorities regarding Modi, which is totally wrong," Badal said while addressing a gathering after laying down the foundation stone of Islamia Public School.

The Chief Minister alleged that the Congress has always pursued the policy of "divide and rule" for fulfilling its vested political interests and "distorting" the image of Modi was a part of this strategy.

Impressing upon the community to vote for making Modi as the next Prime Minister of the nation, Badal said that only a seasoned politician and able administrator like the Gujarat Chief Minister could lead the nation efficiently.

Impressing upon the community to vote for making Modi as the next Prime Minister of the nation, Badal said that only a seasoned politician and able administrator like the Gujarat Chief Minister could lead the nation efficiently.

Attacking Congress vice-president, Badal said that "if Rahul Gandhi is elected to the coveted post of the Prime Minister then only god could save the country from the ensuing disaster."

The Chief Minister further said that if the NDA government assumes power at the Centre after the forthcoming Lok Sabha polls, they would ensure the all round development of Muslim community in true letter and spirit.

The 86-year-old, five-time CM, stressed that SAD was committed for safeguarding the interests of the community.

Badal also urged the Muslim community to attend the upcoming rally of Gujarat CM in Punjab in huge number "so as to clear the myth about the popularity of Modi amongst the minorities."

He also announced that the state government would soon make the necessary amendments in the rules to make a community representative as the vice chairman of Punjab Minorities Commission.

He also announced a grant of Rs 10 lakh for the upcoming school.

Later, interacting with the media persons, the Chief Minister said that by "denying" the industrial package, the Congress led UPA government has proved that it was totally anti-Punjab.

On the list issued by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal regarding the "corrupt" political leaders of the country, Badal said, "his Delhi counterpart must remember that he was an elected representative of the people and not a judge".