NCP is using road-toll tax to raise election fund in Maharashtra: Raj Thackeray

MUMBAI: Maharashtra Navanirman Sena (MNS) Chief Raj Thackeray alleged at a rally in Pune on Sunday that the road-toll tax collected in Maharashtra was being used by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) as an election-fund and the road-toll in the state is one of the biggest scams the country has ever seen. In protest of toll collection Raj called for a transport closure in Maharashtra on 12 th February.

Hitting at the Congress-NCP government in Maharashtra Raj said that the state is already collecting 13 types of various taxes which are supposed to be used for building roads and the toll was being used only as a fund for political use. “The state is collecting over Rs.22,000 crore on road tax of vehicles sold in the state and a similar amount on fuel cess and other taxes. The calculations show that the state has three times the funds which are actually needed for construction of new roads and bridged”, Raj said.

''We decided to do a proper scrutiny of how much money is being collected at various toll plazas in Maharashtra and met Chief Minister Prithviraj Chavan to explain to him that there is large scale misappropriation in road toll collection but he said he has to run a coalition government and cannot act against his ministers. We had no option but to launch an agitation against the collection of toll", Raj added.

Raj said that the opposition in Maharashtra was not aggressive enough to take on the government on the issue of toll and called for a road transport closure in the state on 12th February. He announced that MNS will stop all road transport in Mumbai and the state on 12 the February and he will lead the agitation. Raj dared the state government to arrest him and said that he will lead the agitation from the front on Wednesday.

“The roads in Karnataka are much better. Various services are provided on highways. Yet the toll in Karnataka is one third of Maharashtra. Just on Mumbai-Pune expressway between 2007 to 2011 over 2000 people have died in accidents because of bad design and bad maintenance of roads. Gujarat also has better infrastructure in the state. But the state government in Maharashtra is busy just collecting money from vehicle owners”, Thackeray claimed.

“We have evidence to prove that on most toll-plazas in Maharashtra, money collected in cash goes to politicians. In many places the toll-plazas which were to be closed in 2011 or 2012 after a five or 10 year collection are still operational. Some of them are collecting over Rs.1 crore per month. There is no accountability of any kind”, Raj alleged.
