Funds for schemes in Odisha do not reach beneficiaries: Rahul Gandhi

SALIPUR (ODISHA): Congress Vice President Rahul Gandhi today hit back at Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik for calling the national party "corrupt", saying it is BJD which is responsible for a series of scams in the state.

"The funds given to Odisha for welfare schemes do not reach beneficiaries. Most of the money is being misappropriated mid way," Gandhi said during a Congress rally at Bhatapada village near Salipur town in Cuttack district.

"There has been massive loot of iron ore and manganese from the state. A handful of people have been benefited from the mining loot while people are suffering here," he said.

Patnaik had termed Congress as "corrupt" and BJP as "communal" during a programme held to celebrate the foundation day of his party on December 26 last year.

"Your money earned from coal, iron ore, manganese and different minerals are going to others' pockets, while the state government is unable to run schools and hospitals. About 3,500 farmers have committed suicide in Odisha and above 10 lakh youths could not be given employment," he said and urged the people to "oust the BJD government to ensure a speedy development of the state".

Referring to the Rangarajan Committee report, Rahul Gandhi said Odisha tops the list of undeveloped states in the country though it has rich reserves of minerals and a long coastline.

"While Odisha is amir (rich), its people are garib (poor)," he said, adding Centre's funds to the state were being diverted and misappropriated.

Attacking BJD over frequent complaints of "central negligence", he claimed the UPA government at the Centre had provided maximum funds for the state's development.

"No previous government had ever given such a huge amount of money for the state. I am told Rs 5,000 crore is still lying unspent here," he said.

Read more at:
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/funds-for-schemes-in-odisha-do-not-reach-beneficiaries-rahul-gandhi/articleshow/30111892.cms?utm_source=contentofinterest&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=cppst