Nitish Kumar’s hope for Third Front seems unrealistic

Talking to The Economic Times, the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) Yogendra Yadav said the space for a third front has been growing for quite some time in India, even as the erstwhile third front has been dwindling and its disparate, separate constituents have been withdrawing to the margins. He expects the AAP to move into this vacuum.

Yet another contender for this space is a front that Bihar chief minister Nitish Kumar would like to forge, comprising the breakaway members of the erstwhile Janata Party, apart from Lalu Yadav’s Rashtriya Janata Dal, and willing regional parties.

If his mission to forge such a front succeeds before the elections, the forthcoming Lok Sabha elections would be a four-cornered affair. But the odds are against that happening. The reason why the Janata Party broke up into so many splinter groups is relevant in this prognosis. Instead of being bound together by a common vision of how the country should move ahead, its several leaders were obsessed about their own individual political careers. This personality-driven strain continues to operate in these parties.

The same urge would make each one of them think he or she should be the prime minister, in case the front were to turn out to be electorally viable. Therefore, they would not be able to agree on a common candidate or programme for the front before the elections. And after the elections, supersized egos are likely to rule one another out of the top job.

A more likely scenario is one or more constituents finding it more expedient to join hands with some other larger formation. The JD(S) of Deve Gowda and Nitish Kumar’s own JD(U) have allied with the BJP in the past and could do that in the future as well.

But Nitish Kumar is probably right to be sceptical about the validity of current projections based on opinion polls and regional parties ending up holding the key to government formation at the Centre. It would be a matter of regret if such perspicacity and capacity to deliver good governance that stands revealed on the ground in Bihar were to be marginalised on the electoral battlefield. If wishes were horses, this front would ride.
