AAP plagued by internal contradictions, lack of clear agenda and scrappy leadership

Arvind Kejriwal’s hurried resignation as chief minister of Delhi confused the Aam Aadmi Party’s (AAP) grassroots workers in Uttar Pradesh. It created an impression that he and his colleagues ran away from governance. The reasons cited by them might have been insufficient numbers, inability to handle law and order without controlling Delhi Police or the non-introduction of the Jan Lokpal Bill.

But the most important reason was the compulsion to be free to campaign across India for the April-May Lok Sabha elections.

AAP workers and supporters defend the 49-day performance of the Kejriwal government in Delhi. They compare it favourably vis-àvis the Vasundhara Raje government in Rajasthan, Raman Singh government in Chhattisgarh and Shivraj Chouhan government in Madhya Pradesh. However, they find themselves at a loss to answer why, when Kejriwal consulted people on forming a government, he did not do so while quitting?

Khaas Aadmis of AAP

Then there are issues regarding the ticket allocation process. AAP functionaries and ticket seekers are not complaining about whether they will get tickets or not, but are dismayed at the behaviour of some bossy party functionaries. The AAP’s move to give more weight to well-known public names over the claims of those who are founding members or those with deep pockets has also confused workers. Why does AAP suddenly want “branded people” for the Lok Sabha when unknown people won elections in Delhi? Is the aam aadmibeing kept away from the process of ticket allocation?

Caste Away?

Like many outsiders, workers also have little inkling about the ideology of AAP. Kejriwal likes capitalism but is against cronyism, Prashant Bhushan is Marxist and Yogendra Yadav has a socialist worldview. What are AAP’s economic and foreign policies? Simply saying that honest politics is our economic policy may sound nice, but doesn’t help people. Honesty is a generic requirement for all policies. So what are the public policies of AAP? And when shall we get to know them?

In UP, caste is crucial. What is the stand of the AAP on caste and castebased mobilisation? Will the party, which is still not clear on ideology, like to fight national elections on local matters like it did in Delhi, writing 71 manifestos, one overall and one each for every assembly seat? That is not likely to be feasible.

In a low-key fashion, the AAP has already declared candidates in 187 seats in many parts of India, including 55 in UP. But this raises some questions . In the absence of clearly articulated ideology and policies, can the AAP ignore political mobilisation on primordial basis? After all, it has to make inroads into several caste constituencies held by established parties in UP.

Is it unethical to mobilise on caste basis? How about Dalit mobilisation by the Bahujan Samaj Party and mobilisation of other backward castes by the Samajwadi Party in UP? Nobody objected to their complex, caste-based politics. Then, when the need arose, both these parties turned from exclusionary politics to inclusive politics, gaining in the process . Everyone lauded this too.

We cannot fix castes into political camps. Those who object to parties attracting heterogeneous castes or sub-castes and their leaders do so owing to their vested interests. Why should it be fine for Nitish Kumar to run a coalition with BJP in Bihar, but unethical for Ram Vilas Paswan to go back to BJP even if he had said some unkind words earlier?

Agenda Anyone?

Why should Mayawati be lauded for poaching Brahmins in UP but Rahul Gandhi ridiculed for trying to access Dalits by visiting their hamlets? Many of those in the AAP will come from different castes and social strata . Will they submerge those identities in the party?

The AAP’s clean, anti-graft agenda attracts everybody. But can you fight national elections on just one issue, howsoever central it might be to others? The Jan Lokpal will be a quasi-legal institution and it would be silly to presume that all social ills would be handled by it. Our experience with the legal system would suggest that it is risky to bet too much on the judiciary despite our high regard for judges and courts. The AAP cannot abdicate political responsibility to legal institutions.

AAP has got little time to educate us on its agenda. But it must, because in a Lok Sabha election, peoples’ stakes are very high. They want clean government, but they also want to know the full agenda of a party that is in the race to form a national government.
