Pre-Poll: The Election Commission engaged in setting rules for parties and social media

NEW DELHI: The Election Commission is set to make another attempt to push for adherence of its code of conduct by the social media networks ahead of the upcoming general elections amid resistance among players such as Facebook and Google to comply with the earlier instructions to remove malicious content and monitor paid advertisements.

"Although it is not a legally defined area, malicious content has to be removed and pre-certification of advertisements is a must. We are again going to convene a meeting with all the social media networks," a senior official said on the condition of anonymity.

The move comes after an industry body Internet and Mobile Association of India (IAMAI) submitted a position paper to the commission on January 20, citing limited liability of internet intermediaries under the Information Technology Act with respect to content posted by third parties.

The association, which represents social media companies including Facebook and Google, urged the commission against "undue and onerous regulation" even as it said all lawful requests for content removal would be complied with expeditiously.

It argued that additional regulations to enforce the code of conduct "with their corresponding compliance requirements will negatively impact the online services and hamper free flow of information among Indian citizens and impinge on their fundamental rights to freely speak and express themselves on such platforms".

The commission had earlier held a meeting with the social media companies last November and asked them to comply and respond to specific issues regarding the code of conduct. That meeting had come about a month after the commission made it clear that the provisions of the code of conduct would apply to the internet, including social media websites.

Social media industry executives say it is impossible to monitor user generated content (UGC), matter posted by second or third parties, and paid ads since these are almost entirely technology driven, with servers based out of the US. "If the Election Commission brings specific instances to our notice, action can be initiated but suo motu action is not feasible," said an executive, who did not wish wto be named.

A senior official of Department of Information Technology, however, said, "Under Section 69 and 79 of IT Act, the government can order removal of objectionable content and social media networks have no option but to comply."

According to Election Commission guidelines, "Legal provisions relating to election campaigning apply to social media in the same manner in which they apply to any other form of election campaigning using any other media."

An executive had earlier told ET that the industry believed the model code of conduct was for the political parties and candidates and not the social media networks. In any case, the executive had argued, the commission's directive could not be implemented since it overrides the Information Technology Act that all the networks complied with. The commission has classified social media into five types – collaborative projects such as Wikipedia; blogs and micro blogs such as Twitter; content communities such as Google-owned YouTube; social networking sites such as Facebook; and games and apps.

What's in a name? Poll panel not offended by colloquialisms

Words such as 'shehzada,' 'feku', 'pappu' and 'lutera' may pass muster with the Election Commission since these are colloquial terms. According to a senior official, "Election Commission can't prescribe a political dictionary. Each case will be viewed on its merit. Congress may have felt offended by Narendra Modi's barb 'shehzada', which was directed against Rahul Gandhi but EC found nothing derogatory about it — it means prince. Similarly, 'feku', is someone who exaggerates and 'pappu', not worldly-wise. But if candidates or celebrities use objectionable language during the election campaign, it will be viewed seriously and matter taken up with respective party chiefs. The commission is working on a grading system, that is after second or third warning, for a repeated offence, notice of derecognition is served."

