We do not accept that Telangana bill was introduced: BJP, other parties

NEW DELHI: The introduction of the Telangana bill itself has run into a controversy with several parties, including BJP, today telling Lok Sabha Speaker Meira Kumar that they do not accept that the legislation has been introduced.

"The government has claimed that the bill has been introduced, but we do not accept," Leader of Opposition Sushma Swaraj told reporters after she led a delegation of six parties to the Speaker to lodge their protest in the matter.

"I was sitting in the House even after the (pepper) spray incident and wanted to stay inside till I was advised by marshals to leave as it could cause harm to my health," she said, noting that she did not know when the bill was introduced even though she was inside Lok Sabha.

Other parties whose leaders accompanied Swaraj were SP, BJD, CPI and Trinamool Congress, saying they do not accept the introduction of Telangana bill.

YSR Congress chief Y S Jaganmohan Reddy was the first to raise questions over the introduction of the Andhra Pradesh Reorganisation Bill.

He said it was a "mockery" to say that the bill has been introduced as the whole thing was over in ten seconds and there were no 'ayes' and 'noes'.

Reddy, whose party is staunchly opposed to the division of Andhra Pradesh, said his party will move court in the matter.

But TRS chief K Chandrashekhar Rao insisted that the bill has been introduced and rules followed.

Home Minister Sushilkumar Shinde said the bill has been introduced by him and it is now "the property of the House".

Parliamentary Affairs Minister Kamal Nath and Law Minister Kapil Sibal also said that the bill has been tabled.

Trinamool Congress Parliamentary Party chief Sudip Bandyopadhyay earlier attacked Congress and the government for not listing the bill in today's list of business.

"It is not even mentioned in the supplementary list of business of Lok Sabha. This is highly irregular. Most MPs were in the dark on the issue and Congress has made a mess of it," he said.

