Nandan Nilekani comes with a baggage of UPA govt's corruption: Ananth Kumar

HN Ananth Kumar has made the Bangalore South seat a BJP bastion since 1996. Seeking to enter the Lok Sabha a sixth time, he is unfazed by Congress fielding UIDAI chairman Nandan Nilekani. In an interview to Naheed Ataulla, Kumar said he will sail through on pro-incumbency. Excerpts:

On whether this is his most challenging election

Each election is a challenge. But this election is the biggest challenge for Congress, which will meet its Waterloo. For the fi rst time, there is every possibility of the party securing less than 100 seats.

On his Congress rival Nandan Nilekani’s claim that Bangalore South voters are looking for change

Yes, the voters want a change at the national level. People of Bangalore have great understanding. They know LS polls are not municipality elections. People want a strong and able leader, not a failed one. They know only if they give Narendra Modi 272+ seats, including 20+ from Karnataka , can he become PM.

On how the Modi effect will help him in Bangalore South

The contest in Bangalore South is Modi versus Rahul Gandhi. It’s wrong to look at the Bangalore South contest as a standalone election. Modi is BJP and NDA’s PM candidate who is running the finals ; in Bangalore South, it is under his leadership.

On whether B S Yeddyurappa’s candidature will make BJP vulnerable

No. The focus will be on UPA’s mega corruption in Coalgate, 2G, Adarsh, etc.

On whether Yeddyurappa’s corruption is a liability to BJP

Yeddyurappa provided a pro-people government. The Karnataka public wants to see a bigger picture now. The issue over which Yeddyurappa was asked to step down was different. It was an issue between BJP and Congress. Our leaders faced it squarely. Our unity in Karnataka has added strength to the campaign.

On his poll pitch

A better India and a better Bangalore. As civil aviation minister, I got approval for the Kempegowda International Airport; as urban development minister, sanctioned Rs 1,000 crore which helped build fl yovers, underpasses and Nirmal Shauchalayas. I sanctioned the Bangalore Metro project and Cauvery IV Stage. This election will focus on the development of Bangalore and on national issues.

On whether there is nothing left to be done by the Bangalore South winner

Congress is no match. My opponent has to take a lot of baggage such as unemployment , corruption and insecurity of the UPA government.

On whether anti-incumbency will affect him

In my case, there is proincumbency. Except in 1989, when Gundu Rao was elected on a Congress ticket, it was K S Hegde (1977), T R Shamanna (1980) and V S Krishna Iyer (1984) — all non-Congress candidates — who won from here. I am confident voters of Bangalore South will bless and support me. The Congress has lost even before the fight, one indication being the party’s failure to name its PM candidate.