Centre for Science and Environment slams UPA government's decision to give sops to car and SUV industry

LUCKNOW: Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) has slammed the new budget proposal to cut taxes on cars with fuel-guzzling and polluting SUVs enjoying the biggest slash.

In last year's budget, finance minister Chidambaram had, responding to the crippling energy crisis, hiked the excise on SUVs from 27 percent to 30 percent. But this year, buckling under pressure from the automobile industry, he has cut excise across all vehicle segments. Excise duty on small cars, motor cycles, scooters and commercial vehicles have been reduced from 12 to 8 percent; on SUVs from 30 to 24 percent; and large and mid-segment cars from 27/24 to 24/20 per cent. SUVs get the highest cut of 6 per cent.

CSE said, "If a government cannot stay consistent and bold about its earlier decisions to address energy security and public health, it loses the confidence of people to deliver on the objectives of good governance. This is certainly a disturbing message just before the elections."

This fiscal move will push the market towards heavier cars and SUVs that guzzle more fuel. Already, with the growing share of big cars and SUVs the average weight of the car fleet has increased from 1,037 kg in 2009-10 to 1,101 kg in 2012-13 - a 5-6 per cent weight increase leading to 3 per cent fuel economy penalty. Is this the price India should pay for luxury use of fuel?, said the organization.

CSE has asked the FM to justify the highest tax cut for SUVs when their sales have remained the most robust compared to other vehicle segments. According to the SIAM release of late last year, while passenger cars sales had declined by 6.69 per cent the sales of utility vehicles had increased by a whopping 52.20 per cent during the financial year 2013 compared to 2012. SUVs have remained the highest selling segment all through - even during the height of recession in 2009-11, sales of cars and SUVs (2000 cc engines) increased by 41 per cent.

CSE said that during the tenure of UPA II, petrol and diesel consumption together has increased by 35 per cent. SUVs and cars have further pushed up the diesel demand. The Union ministry of petroleum and natural gas has already reported that of the total diesel use (both bulk and retail), the share of car use (private cars and SUV taxis) is up to 22.09 per cent. Private cars alone use 13.15 per cent which is higher than buses at 9.55 per cent, agriculture at 13 per cent, railways at 3.24 per cent and mobile towers at 1.54 per cent. Cars and personal SUVs are the second highest users after diesel trucks at 28.25 per cent.

Even after completing two terms, the UPA government has not learnt to balance welfare and growth, criticized CSE. It said the finance minister should have also checked how Chinese cities are checking motorisation. Even after scaling up public transport, improving emissions standards and staying much ahead of Indian cities the Chinese cities have gone to the extent of capping the number of cars that can be sold in a year.

"UPA II has decided to give this sop to diesel SUVs and all cars when air pollution and motorization in our cities have emerged as a serious public health problem. UPA lacks maturity in its fiscal governance. This political tokenism offers no electoral hope for clean, safe, healthy future", complained the organization.
