Vote on Account 2014: Indian IT can no longer win only on the basis of cost arbitrage

By Benoy C S, Director, Information & Communication Technologies Practice, Frost & Sullivan

In today's modern world, Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) play a very important role in stimulating sustainable economic growth, improving service delivery, and promoting good governance and social accountability. With internet penetration at a turning point and with over 75 per cent of the Indian population having access to fixed or mobile telephone services, ICT networks now constitute a far-reaching service delivery and citizen participation platform. It can now be used as a vehicle to increase accountability, and can transform and extend the reach of service delivery to the underserved in an innovative, fast, and cost-efficient manner.

So the time has come for the Indian Government to re-look at its policies to support ICT growth in the country. First and foremost, there should be a shift in the mind-set of the Government to consider and treat IT/telecom industry from 'revenue generating industry' to a 'strategic sector' for sustained economic growth. While framing its ICT policies, the Government should plan to effectively address the following key challenges and opportunities:

> Improve affordability in order to reach and provide access to one-third of the population who currently live beyond the ICT networks

> Widen access to more advanced ICT services such as broadband

> Leverage the new ICT infrastructure to improve the delivery of services and to build on it as a source of economic growth

> Improve and facilitate innovation in ICT industry

> Develop and align people skills relevant to ICT industry and the knowledge economy

One of the key and immediate focuses of the Government should be to reduce the digital divide and create digital opportunities by providing rural communities with ubiquitous, affordable, equitable, and quality access to ICT. Promoting access to ICT in rural areas is an important tool to alleviate poverty and help inclusive growth. Through the use of ICT services, rural communities can find new income earning opportunities, improve the delivery of basic services, and enhance their participation in decision-making processes. To enable it, the Government needs to fast-track rural broadband connectivity projects and should create an opportunity to make it available and affordable for the masses.

Another key aspect, which the Government should keep in mind is, ICT sector is one of the most international and globalized markets worldwide, hence, the basis for economic success of any information and communication technology is to operate internationally. With emergence of many small software development hubs across the globe, particularly in developing economies, India can no more win on the basis of cost arbitrage.So it is important to frame policies to enable Indian companies to face competition outside, enter new markets and to keep pace with developments taking place elsewhere. To give an example, restarting the Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) scheme for Tier 2/3 cities in India could be a good measure which the Government should do to reignite the fading software industry in the country.

Driving innovation is another critical element that needs immediate attention in the Indian ICT sector. While the relationship between innovation and economic growth has been well studied and proven it has gained more relevance and importance, particularly in the ICT sector, which is characterized by rapid innovation and high rates of investment in research and development (R&D). Strong intellectual property (IP) protection laws and effective enforcement are vital elements for innovation. So it is very important for the Government to initiate a series of steps to facilitate and promote the culture of innovation in our country. It should come out with clear policies, guidelines and framework to motivate Indian companies to invest in R&D, encourage and support small technology start-ups and also incentivize global companies for setting up R&D and manufacturing centers in India through appropriate fiscal and legal benefits.

Another key aspect that needs to be looked into is the creation of a good quality ICT talent pool in the country. Having the right quality and quantity of domestic ICT graduates is a critical component for sustained growth. The skill requirement of the ICT industry is complex; hence, a framework has to be designed to ensure that all aspects of high-level ICT skill needs are considered and effectively addressed. Keeping the long-term requirement in mind, the Government should invest in ICT education and also encourage cooperation between industries and universities for creating innovative models of talent development, helping cultivate more ICT professionals and form a strong and competent ICT talent pool in the country.

Last year the Government took an important and significant decision to provide infrastructure status for the telecom industry and permit 100 per cent FDI in telecom. While it can be considered a good initial step in the right direction, a lot more still needs to be done. We need more bold policy decisions to inject growth into the IT and Telecom industry. As mentioned earlier, the time has now come for the Government to consider and treat ICT as a 'strategic sector', frame right policies and make adequate investment to foster growth, innovation and healthy competition.

