Vote on Account 2014: New government needs to bring credible plan on fiscal consolidation

The interim budget will be bereft of any climax. Finance minister P Chidambaram has already vowed not to cross the red-line on fiscal deficit, the difference between total expenditure and total non-borrowed receipts. The spending squeeze and money from spectrum auction will help the Centre meet its fiscal deficit target of 4.8% of the GDP. Rating agencies won't hold-out the threat of a sovereign downgrade, offering respite for the beleaguered UPA government ahead of the polls.

That's small consolation. The fiscal deficit for 2013-14 would still be higher than the target of 3% of GDP mandated under the law on fiscal responsibility and budget management. So, it is imperative for the new government, which takes charge at the Centre in May, to have a credible plan on fiscal consolidation.

Trends show that the Centre's finances were in a reasonably good shape during 2002-03 to 2007-08. The financial crisis, followed by the economic slowdown, was a party pooper, especially for the Centre. What are the risks to the economy? High fiscal deficits can push-up public debt and leave less money for the government to spend on creating assets. A high deficit also feeds into inflation and can harm the external sector and the rupee.

So, what should the new government do to revert to the path of fiscal consolidation? No rocket science. It must step up investment, clear stalled projects, axe petroleum and fertilizer subsidies and quickly roll out the goods and services tax. More investment will spur growth and bring in more tax revenues. Lower subsidies and higher tax revenues from GST will certainly put government finances in a better shape. The BJP, that claims to be pro reform, must support GST, whether or not it is voted to power.

Remember, the value added tax helped states' earn more tax revenues even during the downturn. Thanks to VAT, and also higher share of central transfers from the Thirteenth Finance Commission's award, state finances are in a better shape today than the Centre's finances.

RBI data shows that many states have revenue surpluses -- 22 out of 28 states have projected a revenue surplus this fiscal. This, in turn, is expected to further improve the states' consolidated fiscal position. The quality of states' spending has also improved.

States' overall debt as a proportion of GDP has come down, ironically due to high inflation. The reason is simple. The stock of debt has remained the same, but an increase in nominal GDP due to inflation has brought down the overall debt ratio. That's the big take away from the story so far on government finances.

Reducing indebtedness will provide an elbow room for governments to borrow more during a crisis. However, states can't become complacent. More welfare schemes to fulfill poll promises could put pressure on state finances as well. Reform is the only way forward. Therefore, states must also slash subsidies, raise user charges on electricity and water to augment their non-tax revenues.

The law on fiscal responsibility and budget management (FRBM), enacted in 2003, was meant to bring in fiscal discipline. The Centre has tripped, and should put its house in order. States haven't at least in the three years and, therefore, should be given the freedom to set their own fiscal targets.