Narendra Modi hits out at Salman Khurshid; says INC should be renamed to 'Institution Neglecting Congress'

NEW DELHI: In a direct attack at External Affairs Minister Salman Khurshid, BJP's Prime Ministerial candidate Narendra Modi on Friday slammed the minister for his apparent criticism of the Election Commission and Supreme Court.

"We should be proud of our Election Commission, but the External Affairs Minister is abusing it in London," Modi said. "We are proud of our democracy and our Election Commission, which works so efficiently," Modi said.

Accusing Congress of being in the habit of 'misusing, abusing and reducing institutions', Modi said, "Their name - INC - must be changed to Institution Neglecting Congress."

Khurshid had questioned the role of the Supreme Court and the Election Commission, making mocking comments about them. Apparently referring to the Supreme Court judgment disqualifying convicted lawmakers, he called it "a judge-made law", while the "broad philosophical approach" of the Election Commission guidelines appear to be that "you should do or say nothing that wins you an election".

Speaking on the 'Challenges of Democracy in India' at the School of Oriental and African Studies ( SOAS), Khurshid had said the Election Commission's Model Code of Conduct made it difficult for parties to win elections.

"The recent instructions that we received from them (EC) interestingly are that our manifesto must be certain that it does not offer the building of roads, because promise of building roads distorts democratic decision-making.

Modi's criticism of Khurshid came during a BJP rally in Odisha's Sambalpur. At the rally Modi said, "We are looking for solution to the nation's problems all the time but Congress is busy finding solutions to Modi."

Urging people to vote for BJP, Modi said, "The longer we tolerate them (Congress), the more injustice will be done to the people." "Congress is an expert at making false promises. The world is moving ahead very fast and we can't stay like this, else we will stay behind," Modi hit out.
