Arvind Kejriwal is more dangerous than a corrupt person: Vinod Kumar Binny

NEW DELHI: Expelled AAP MLA Vinod Kumar Binny on Wednesday decided to withdraw support to the Delhi government, while terming chief minister Arvind Kejriwal of being "more dangerous" than a corrupt person.

"Today I am writing to lieutenant governor Najeeb Jung apprising him of my decision to withdraw support to Kejriwal government. Kejriwal is more dangerous than a corrupt person. He is telling lies and deceiving not only citizens of Delhi, but also people of the entire country," he said.

Binny, however, said he would support the government on the matter of Jan Lokpal Bill.

"If they government brings Anna's (Hazare) Jan Lokpal Bill in the assembly for its passage, I will support them," said Binny.

Binny, who has been shown the door for "indiscipline" by AAP, has put forth a series of demands before Delhi government which include fulfilment of promises made by the party before the assembly polls.

Claiming support of at least five legislators, Binny had on Sunday threatened to pull down the government if his demands were not met within 48 hours.

He had asked the government to sort out issues related to power and water sector. He demanded that government should give subsidy on 8 per cent increase in power surcharge. The DERC has increased the power surcharge ranging from 6 to 8 per cent this month.

He had also said that "The government should make women squads as promised to prioritise security of women. Instead of charging people for entire 700 litres of water after exceeding the limit, the government should charge only for water consumed over 700 litres.

Binny had also said that he would also form a political front with two other AAP MLAs, who were in touch with him, along with municipal councillors.

However, the two MLAs Iqbal and Shokeen did a U-turn and said they would not go ahead with their threat.

The two legislators had said they changed their mind after a meeting with Kejriwal and claimed that Binny had also agreed not to withdraw support to AAP government.
