Congress, NPP accuse Rajasthan govt of tapping opposition MLAs' phones

JAIPUR: Opposition Congress and National People's Party MLAs today accused the BJP government in Rajasthan of tapping their phones and infringing upon their rights, which the ruling party denied.

During the Zero Hour, Congress MLA Vishwendra Singh told the House that according to reliable sources the government was "conducting surveillance on his and other Opposition and Independent MLAs' telephones".

The phones of Singh, NPP leader K L Meena and Independent MLA Hanuman Beniwal were "being tapped by the BJP government which is deplorable", he said. "This is an infringement on our basic rights... It seems the BJP government with 163 MLAs is trying to create fear in public and elected Opposition MLAs."

Picking up the issue, NPP leader Meena said the House should take it seriously and the government should clarify its stand whether it was being done or not.

Parliamentary Affairs Minister Rajendra Singh Rathore strongly objected the Opposition members' charges, saying "there was no basis of such allegations". "I strongly reject their allegations," he said.

As the NPP and Congress MLAs stuck to their stand, Speaker Kailash Meghwal assured the House that he "will not take this issue lightly and the members' voice will be heard".

Meanwhile, National Unionist Zamindara Party member Sona Devi Bavri raised the issue of cleanliness in her Raisinghnagar segment, and cautioned that the state government would be responsible if she "died" for the very cause.

Bavri and her party colleague Kamani Jindal said Sriganganagar district farmers' demand of minimum support price for their crops and bonus be addressed on priority.

During the Question Hour, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Rajendra Rathore told the House that under the new excise policy no new shop of country liquor or foreign liquor would be opened in the state. Fine on drunkard for creating nuisance on road has also been raised from Rs 50 to Rs 500.