Kejriwal's 'jail' media remark: BJP, Congress slam Arvind Kejriwal's comments on media; AAP defends party chief's stand

NEW DELHI: Even as Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) chief Arvind Kejriwal sought to backtrack from his remark on media, his party leaders on Friday defended his statement of 'jailing media' if AAP comes to power.

Accusing the "whole" media of being "sold out", Arvind Kejriwal had threatened to send media people to jail after an inquiry into the issue if AAP comes to power.

Meanwhile, AAP leader Manish Sisodia defended his party chief saying, "Some sections of media are paid to make news. Paid media is dangerous for country. What media says about Modi is biased. Questioning it isn't bad."

Sanjay Singh of AAP said, "There should be investigations against media groups who indulge in sting operations against AAP. We are referring to the media in general and not any specific media channel."

Insisting that Kejriwal spoke only about 'a certain section' of media, AAP leader Ashutosh said, "I am officially saying that corrupt media people should be investigated against."

Kejriwal's remarks came under attack from Congress, BJP and other political parties. Manish Tewari of Congress said, "Media has essential place in our democracy. Saying you will jail media is condemnable. One should be able to handle criticism." "Media's responsibility to broadcast everything in a balance and not be biased," Tewari added.

MA Naqvi of BJP said, "Media made AAP a hero. Now AAP is abusing the same media." BJP leader Ravi Shankar Prasad said, "Kejriwal's statements on media exposes his doublespeak."

BJP went on to say that Kejriwal's comments on the media reflect his frustration. BJP leader Subramanian Swamy said, "I have always said the AAP has a Maoist mindset."

Jammu & Kashmir Chief Minister Omar Abdullah said, "I really don't get AAP & Kejriwal's criticism of the media. But for blanket coverage he has received, AAP wouldn't exist today."

Kejriwal had accused media of being 'sold out' "The whole media is sold out this time, it is a big conspiracy, it is a huge political controversy. If our government comes to power then we will set up an inquiry into this. And along with the media people, all will be sent to jail," he had said, hitting out at the media for focusing on his security deployment.

However, as the video went viral, the AAP leader denied making the remarks. "I didn't say that. I didn't say anything. How can I be upset with you (media)," he said.
