I continue to be an untouchable: Narendra Modi

KOCHI: BJP's Prime Ministerial candidate Narendra Modi today said he continued to be an untouchable for many in the country.

"I continue to be a victim of untouchability," Modi said inaugurating the centenary celebrations of 'Kayal Samaram', organised by Kerala Pulayar Maha, Kerala's leading Scheduled Community here.

'Kayal Samaram' was a meet held on a platform of country boats on Kochi backwaters to assert the rights of backward community Pulayar's in Kerala society.

"After taking stock of the political developments in the country I am saying with confidence and humility that the next 10 years will be that of dalits and backward class in the country," Modi said.

Modi referred the issue of untouchability after mentioning the absence of Kochi City Mayor and Congress leader Tonny Chemani, who was among those scheduled to attend the function.

Referring to the role played by eminent leaders like Ayankali and Babasaheb Ambedker, who fought casteism and untouchability, Modi said "next 10 years is going to be yours" amidst loud cheers from the crowd.

Asking the people to fight superstition and give maximum education to their children, Modi said these were the two main things required for development.

Ambedker's slogan of "education, unity and struggle" was very valid now, he said, adding, "getting justice is not begging, but is the right of every citizen".

Criticising the past about 60 years rule in the country, he said "many things which has to be done had not been carried so far. I think it is my fate to carry out those things which have been left out by the governments in the last 60 years".

One such thing is installation of a memorial for Ayankali, social reformer from Kerala, in the premises of Parliament, he said.

Significant presence at the function was the leader of Sree Narayana Paripalana Saghan, an organisation of powerful Ezhava community, Vellapalli Natesan.

Natesan in his address praised Modi's development work at Gujarat and said "Modi, who came from a backward community, proved that persons from backward also could provide a good governance."

Read more at:
https://economictimes.indiatimes.com/news/politics-and-nation/i-continue-to-be-an-untouchable-narendra-modi/articleshow/30121061.cms?utm_source=contentofinterest&utm_medium=text&utm_campaign=cppst