Narendra Modi on Chidambaram's budget: Only solace that it is UPA's final act of misery

NEW DELHI: Tearing into Finance Minister P Chidambaram's Vote on Account speech, BJP's Prime Ministerial Narendra Modi said, "The only solace one gets from the vote-on-account is that this was UPA's final act of misery after a decade of decay & policy paralysis."

Calling the interim budget 'extremely disappointing', Modi said, "It is nothing but a glorified exercise in self-congratulation. While the FM may pat his own back, the fact remains that our youth is bearing the brunt of rising unemployment," Modi tweeted.

Responding to Chidambaram's indirect jibe at him, Modi said, "It is upto the people to decide whether the Economist PM & FM have been 'hard working' or 'hardly working' in their tenure." "'Hard working' Finance Minister also joins other illustrious UPA ministers who are seeking refuge in history to judge their performance," Modi mocked. "FM eats up planned expenditure, rolls over Rs 35,000 cr subsidies to next year to contain fiscal deficit even as non-plan expenditure overshoots! Real hard work!," Modi hit out.

Chidambaram today made a veiled attack on Narendra Modi and Arvind Kejriwal, telling them "neither populism nor individualism" is an alternative way of governance and expressed confidence that people will entrust responsibility to a "hand" that works for equity.

Modi said that Chidambaram did mere 'lip-service'on the issue of black money. "Mere lip-service by the FM on the return of black money; UPA's lack of commitment towards bringing black money was on display yet again!"

Rejecting FM's belief that there is no policy paralysis, Modi said, "FM says 296 projects worth Rs. 6.6 lakh crore cleared recently. Why were these projects held back at all? Is it not policy paralysis?" "Manufacturing is the Achilles' heel, deceleration in investment in manufacturing worrying"...this is a result of 'wonders' of UPA's policies, Modi added.

Modi welcomed the decision on 'One Rank, One Pension', but said, "I welcome the decision on 'One Rank, One Pension' for our servicemen. Belated wisdom finally dawns on our 'hard working' UPA ministers."

