BJP fishing for allies in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha

NEW DELHI: Despite opinion polls predicting a considerable share of seats for it, the Bharatiya Janata Party is busy fishing for more allies in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Odisha and elsewhere to ensure the National Democratic Alliance gets close to the majority 272 Lok Sabha seats. The BJP’s attempt to poach the Lok Janshakti Party of Ram Vilas Paswan from the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD)-Congress alliance in Bihar is part of a larger attempt to create a viable pre-poll coalition across the country.

BJP has re-started talks with Vijayakanth’s the Desiya Murpokku Dravida Kazhagam (DMDK) in Tamil Nadu. After Vijayakanth’s meeting with Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on February 14, the DMK-DMDK-Congress alliance was considered to be a done deal. But the actor, who has shifted the venue of his parleys to Singapore, has gone back to BJP’s interlocutors seeking one more round of talks, BJP insiders said.

“Our talks with Vijayakanth had collapsed and we had moved on, giving finishing touches to our alliance with PMK (Pattali Makkal Katchi) and MDMK (Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam) in Tamil Nadu. That is when we got an invitation for another round of talks with Vijayakanth. We hope he will come around to join the NDA,” an interlocutor said.

This is a clear strategy to repeat the 1998 and 1999 performance when BJP had ensured a pre-poll alliance in all the bigger states where the party normally cannot hope to be a major player. Apart from UP, where BJP is expected to do well on its own, and in Maharashtra, where it has in alliance with Shiv Sena, BJP is trying to be in contention in big states where it is not in power, like Bihar, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh, through alliances.

In West Bengal, dominated by Mamata Banerjee’s Trinamool Congress and the opposition Left, the BJP is unable to rope in a pre-poll ally and all it can hope for is a post-poll understanding with TMC. With K Chandrashekhar Rao of Telangana Rashtra Samithi likely to merge with Congress, the BJP is examining the pros and cons of tying up with TDP in Seemandhra. BJP, traditionally, is stronger in Telangana and is likely to emerge as the main challenger in case TRS merges with Congress.

A tie-up with TDP, which is perceived as an anti-Telangana party, may prove to be counter-productive. The party is still examining its gains in Seemandhra and losses in Telengana before responding to TDP’s desperate attempts to join the NDA. After the split of AP, TDP will be a serious contestant only in the 25 seats of Seemandhra. BJP is in a peculiar situation in Odisha, where a section of its state unit is opposed to new allies.

BJP has about 15 per cent votes and has to decide whether to go with former CM JB Patnaik’s son-in-law SR Patnaik’s Aama Odisha Party and former BJD strategist Pyarimohan Mohapatra’s Odisha Jan Morcha. The core committee of the state unit is holding a meeting in Bhubaneshwar with BJP leader-in-charge of state, Chandan Mitra, on Monday. A decision is expected soon.

