BJP, Congress scared of elections, says Arvind Kejriwal

NEW DELHI: AAP leader Arvind Kejriwal today accused BJP and Congress of pressurising the Lt Governor to defer Assembly polls in Delhi and said both the parties were "scared" of elections.

"If elections are held tomorrow, AAP will get 50 seats. They (BJP and Congress) pressurised the LG and deferred the elections. Why are they scared of elections? We went to the Supreme Court seeking dissolution of the House and asked for fresh polls," Kejriwal said at a rally in Dwarka in support of AAP candidate for West Delhi Jarnail Singh.

"The SC had sent a notice to both Congress and BJP, seeking their reply on the issue. Today, they were expected to respond to the notice, but both have sought more time. It raises question mark on their intentions," he said.

On gas pricing, Kejriwal said if his party gets all the seven Lok Sabha seats in Delhi, it will ensure that gas prices do not rise.

Kejriwal said that it was essential to defeat "emperors" of UPA and NDA to reduce inflation and corruption.

"Kumar Vishwas has said he will defeat Rahul Gandhi by over two lakh votes. If we defeat these emperors, Congress will break into pieces and BJP's situation will also deteriorate.

"After that there will be elections again in a year in which people will elect clean people," he said.

Countering the allegations that he ran away from his responsibilities, the AAP leader sought to justify his decision of quitting and lauded the achievements of his 49-day old government.

"I did not run away from Delhi. We were attacked four times in Gujarat. I was attacked once in Bhiwani, but let me tell you I will live, stay put and fight and make your (opposition parties) lives miserable," he said.

He also took a jibe on Congress President Sonia Gandhi's comment that governance is not a child's play, in an apparent reference to AAP.

Deflecting the Congress President's remark at her son Rahul Gandhi, he said, "She should not have said this about her son... He could be around 43-44 years and the Constitution does give him the right to become the Prime Minister."