Congress leaders running away from polls because of BJP wave: Vasundhara Raje

SIKAR/AJMER: Exuding confidence of party's win in Lok Sabha elections, Rajasthan Chief Minister Vasundhara Raje today said Congress leaders were scared of "BJP wave" and "running away" from polls fearing defeat.

Raje said Congress leaders Manish Tiwari, P Chidambaram decided not to contest because "there is a BJP wave".

"Congress candidates are now running away from contesting elections. Manish Tiwari said he would not contest and Chidambaram got his son a ticket instead of contesting himself. It is BJP wave and Congress will not find a place," Raje asserted while addressing a public meeting in Sikar.

"Congress ruled the country for 65 years but did nothing for people of the country. In such a long time, they could have turned the situation for better. When Narendra Modi can change Gujarat in ten years, why Congress could not deliver at the centre," she asked.

"I want to ask Congress people that why they are not taking their Yuvraj at the forefront. He (Rahul Gandhi) visits places like Deoli and others but does nothing," she said.

She voiced confidence of winning all the 25 Lok Sabha seats in Rajasthan. "We won 163 out of 200 Assembly seats in elections last year and now we will win all the 25 parliamentary constituencies. It is our mission-25 that we will achieve."

The chief minister also said the party distributed tickets after consultation with local cadre and the decision of the party leadership was applicable to all.

"The party is like a family. Sometime we see good things happening, in our favour, and sometime not but we have to remain one," she said in the rally after filing of nomination of the party candidate Swami Sumedhanand from Sikar.

The remarks came after senior party leader Jaswant Singh was last Friday denied ticket to contest Lok Sabha polls from his home seat Barmer.

Singh decided to contest the elections as an Independent after the BJP fielded former Congress MLA Sonaram Chowdhry, who joined BJP last week, from the seat.

In Ajmer, Raje today said sitting MP from the Lok Sabha seat Sachin Pilot did not spend even one per cent time of his last five years in the constituency.

She was addressing a rally in Ajmer in support of the party candidate Sanwar Lal Jat.

"Though some foundation laying ceremonies took place in your constituency but the work was not done.

He asks that what our government did in two months but he should tell people that where was he and why he did not spare time for people," she said.