AAP relies on maturity of voters to gain electorally from the gas price issue

NEW DELHI: The FIR filed at the behest of former Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal against Mukesh Ambani and ministers in the UPA government, alleging that they conspired to rig gas prices to favour Reliance Industries, has highlighted a very technical and complex issue. But does the Aam Aadmi Party stand to gain electorally from an allegation which seems to have little popular traction?

At a broad level, experts disagree with the line that Kejriwal might have locked himself into an electorally low gain strategy. They feel that the AAP convenor has raised valid questions about links between corporate houses and functioning of government, which, irrespective of how it is interpreted, will find traction across classes.

“For most lower-middle class voters, politicians are a corrupt community and Reliance is generally perceived to be feeding political parties. So for this category of voters, Arvind Kejriwal’s allegation is just an affirmation of the general perception. A more educated and discerning voter will try to go deeper into the issue to find out whether AAP’s logic is flawed or correct. In either case, the topic will be discussed and it would work in AAP’s favour,” said sociologist Dipankar Gupta.

For political commentator Achin Vinaik, whether an issue like gas pricing will have any poll impact depends on how the media treats the issue. “The topic is important and the party is also justified in raising it, but whether it will have a large traction for polls will depend on whether it is seen as part of the larger problem of dubious relations between corporations and government functioning and corporations funding electoral campaigning of political partiers.

This is where the media comes in,” he told ET. The party, however, feels that any talk of gas pricing not resonating with voters is “fallacious”. “The voters of this country are mature and it would be unreasonable to think they will not understand something like this because gas prices will affect their daily lives.

The rally in Rohtak also showed how this issue resonates with the masses,” said Nagender Sharma, media advisor to Kejriwal. There are experts who beg to differ on the ground that the allegations made by Kejriwal are not based on evidence. “It sounds strange. There is no clear evidence or a report to show that there was a conspiracy between Ambani and the government.

There are so many other issues of corruption in the business sector which have been flagged by reports, Kejriwal could have raised those,” said economist Ajay Shah.

After writing to BJP’s PM candidate Narendra Modi, AAP questioned the silence of Congress V-P Rahul Gandhi over the Reliance gas pricing, when party convenor Arvind Kejriwal wrote an open letter to him. Asking whether Gandhi would give LS tickets to party heavyweights named in the FIR lodged at his behest during his stint as the Delhi CM, Kejriwal launched an attack on Gandhi.

“People say, no important decision is taken by the UPA government without asking your family. People want to know this from you whether you support the government's decision of Mukesh Ambani selling gas at 8 dollars per unit,” Kejriwal said in the letter.