AAP changed after Delhi win; stated values, objectives belied

By Madhu Bhaduri
The Aam Admi Party ignited enormous hope among people who viewed the corruption-driven present political options with complete cynicism. AAP held out the hope of a political alternative, offering corruption free and dynasty free participatory democracy. It promised an alternative where Gram Sabhas and Mohalla Sabhas would allow people to decide their own priorities. AAP offered to change the existing system in favour of one where officials would be accountable to the public and transparency in accounts would replace the existing system of flow of public money into private pockets of politicians and bureaucrats.

The party actually achieved what had seemed impossible— it fought and won Delhi elections without black money. This was an impressive achievement. AAP’s disdain for VIP culture and immediate rejection of it was also applauded. It seemed like a new beginning towards systemic change and alternative politics.

However, in the few weeks that AAP ran the government in Delhi and the way the chief minister resigned has left people wondering if it is not just like any other party.

There was a change in the stated objectives of AAP before and after the elections in Delhi. The party had said that it stood for accountability in government and participatory democracy.

The chief minister sang a song on ‘insaniyat’ (humanism) immediately after taking oath, which created an atmosphere of hope and the impression that humanism was a core value of the party. All these stated values and objectives were soon belied. First, many homeless people (174 reported) died in Delhi for lack of night shelters. The government had said it would make 300 shelters for the poor.

Who is responsible for the death of the homeless? Where is the accountability? Second, the importance of humanism for AAP is doubtful. African women living in Khirki Extension were chased by members and supporters of AAP, led by two ministers, in an act of vigilantism in the dead of night and forced to submit themselves to narcotic tests. The humiliation of the women was an attack on ‘insaniyat’. The fight against prostitution and narcotic trade is not on its priority list. What was the hurry then for a mob to target four African women?

The AAP leadership has insistently refused to talk about its ideology. But when the homeless are allowed to perish it shows the party’s ideology. When Arvind Kejriwal says fighting corruption is an answer to communalism, he is expressing his understanding of how politics is to be done. When the party attacks Ugandan women in Khirki Extension because the majority of the people in the neighbourhood seem to want them humiliated, he is practising politics of pandering to local prejudice in exchange for political support. . What it really means is that AAP will choose to address every issue with the most populist position that prevails. AAP’s disdain of VIP culture was also somewhat short lived.

Kejriwal himself asked for two large houses. When the media questioned him, he confronted them with disdain. This, in fact, is the party line on how to treat the media when difficult questions are asked and there is no escape. The resignation of Kejriwal’s minority government just weeks after taking office on the issue of getting his Jan Lokpal bill passed was a move in the direction of getting ready for the battle for Lok Sabha. In the hurry to get moving, AAP forgot to place the Jan Lokpal bill on its website. Supporters in Delhi are a bit dismayed to watch their hopes of getting cheaper electricity and water supplies dashed.

