Jolt to Rahul Gandhi's plan? Cabinet defers plan on anti-corruption ordinances
NEW DELHI: The Cabinet on Friday deferred a call on promulgating ordinances on some pending anti-corruption bills, “being pushed by Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi”. While there are indications that some sections of the Cabinet have been skeptical about the legal and political correctness of the ordinances, the government sources maintain that “the Cabinet could meet again in a few days time”, after further discussions and legal fine-tuning of the provisions, to try and push the Ordinances through. Prime Minister Manmohan Singh, sources said, could meet President Pranab Mukherjee to explain the rationale behind the government thinking on promulgating ordinances.

As soon as the Cabinet had taken up the packed agenda for the day, Cabinet secretary Ajit Seth announced that items relating to the ordinances stand “postponed”, the officials said. However, there were indications that some ministers, especially Agriculture Minister Sharad pawar, as well the legal department of the Government had been skeptical about the justification of the promulgation of Ordinances --as an emergency provision just before the announcement of general elections -- in the event of a legal scrutiny. However, no senior minister was available for comments.

There were also talks of whether President Pranab Mukherjee will be ready to play along with the government on such a controversial Ordinance route. The government’s preparation for pushing the Ordinances, however, was evident when it got the winter session of parliament formally promulgated by Thursday evening.

The Congress is keen on promulgation of ordinances on Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Bill and Right of Citizens for Time-Bound Delivery of Goods and Services and Redressal of their Grievances Bill.

These are among the Bills being pushed by Gandhi to create a framework to fight corruption ever since Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) routed the Congress in the Delhi Assembly polls on an anti-corruption plank. The BJP had made it clear earlier that it will oppose such pre-poll Ordinances and could even petition the President. There were also reports that some political parties could also mount a legal challenge to any such move on the part of the government.

The government was also planning to promulgate Ordinances on the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Amendment Bill, Rights of Persons with Disability Bill, Security Laws (Amendment) Bill and Delhi High Court Act (Amendment) Bill.
