Modi-Nitish camaraderie on show in Bihar, CM says all Opposition in disarray

The old camaraderie between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar was back and on full display at a rally in Aurangabad with the latter assuring that though he had “vanished” in between, he is here to stay in the NDA fold. Inaugurating and laying the foundation stone of various infrastructure projects worth Rs 21,400 Crore, Modi said the environment of lawlessness, insecurity and fear is over and the dreams of some parties to loot the state have now been shattered.

Welcoming the prime minister to Bihar for the first time since the NDA coalition was stitched again with the formation of a JDU-BJP government on January 28, Nitish Kumar said he was thankful to Modi for sanctioning the rail and road projects he had been demanding for some time. He maintained that the state is progressing at a rapid pace now.

“It is a matter of great joy for us that you have come to Bihar…. I had vanished in between but now I am with you. I assure you that I am not going anywhere. I will stay with you. The work here should be completed fast. You all know that we were together from 2005 onwards and a lot of work has been done by us,” Kumar said.

The chief minister underlined that he wishes for the economic well-being of everybody. He urged his supporters to stay united and strong, and not engage in any controversy (in the NDA fold) and ensure a big victory.

“In the coming elections, you (Modi) are going to win more than 400 seats. Others (INDIA bloc) are trying here and there but nothing will happen. Bihar is the most ancient place and with your backing it will grow much further and we give all the credit for that to you,” the chief minister said.

The Prime Minister applauded Nitish’s words. In his address he mentioned the Bharat Ratna to Karpoori Thakur and said the honour is for the whole of Bihar. He also referred to the pran pratishta of the Ram temple at Ayodhya and said the land of Sita (Bihar) should be the happiest with this event.

“Bihar is now growing at a rapid speed due to the double-engine government. There is new enthusiasm and self-confidence. Those who were dreaming of looting Bihar are pained by this. Dynasty politics is now being pushed to the margins after the NDA gained power in Bihar,” Modi said.

He took digs at the Opposition, saying the dynasts are scared of contesting elections and are opting for the Rajya Sabha.

Later at a rally in Begusarai, the prime minister alleged that RJD-Congress have used the Dalits and backwards as a shield for the benefit of dynasty politics and corruption. “This is betrayal. Only one family has progressed while others have been left behind. Real social justice comes not from appeasement but from satisfaction of all. Our welfare schemes are aimed at saturation (covering all intended beneficiaries,” Modi said.

Trinamool created fake job cards under MGNREGA: Modi

Kolkata: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday alleged that the Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal created 2.5 million fake job cards under the national rural job guarantee scheme and that "every scheme has been transformed into a scam" in Trinamool Congress' "tolabaaz raj".

Speaking at a public rally in Krishnanagar, Modi also set BJP a target of winning all the 42 Lok Sabha seats in the state in the elections.
