400 seats is a realisable target and we are working on it. 10 years’ performance will speak on the ground: Nirmala Sitharaman

Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in conversation with Navika Kumar of Times Now at the Times Now Summit 2024. Sitharaman said: “ Real development politics happens and keeps happening. Nothing changes it. People are welcome to come to BJP. But the core work of the BJP, whether it is today, whether it is BJP of pre-2014, whether it is BJP of earlier or even Jana Sangh has continued. If people see work happening and they think as political representatives on the ground, a party is making a difference, they obviously would want to come and join. But the BJP's value systems and the way in which the party runs under certain leadership continue. I do not think there is ever a compromise on that”.

Right now, we are in the throes of the political session and elections have been announced. Many are saying, Char Sau Paar is now just kids' play for the BJP simply because you are ‘taking’ leaders from other political parties, two chief ministers are in jail and accounts of the largest national opposition party have been frozen. At this rate, maybe 543, all to the BJP?
Nirmala Sitharaman: We are not ‘taking’ people. We are welcoming them. The doors are open. On the tax bit, if taxmen can ask you for payments from you, the claims which have been made, the assessee, you or I, will have to pay it. A political party has to file your assessments, you do not pay your tax. But they have not filed an assessment. It is not just overnight. It has been going on from 2021.

They went to one court, the court said, pay it up. The second court said pay it up. Appeal court sais pay it up. No way have they said that I-T was wrong in coming to you. Then, you accept to pay some money. The entire amount which is levied on you, interest, penalty, all inclusive, you do not pay. You just pay a bit and again another bit, and then suddenly you think, oh! let me go to the court again. But suddenly elections are on, so you think best is to make political capital out of it. No. In fact, somebody made a joke.

One of the arguments which they put before the court and also in the media was, how are we to fight elections? All this money has been taken away. They should ask each one of their MLAs, whose houses are full of cash, did not ED go and raid some of them? They should actually give the money back. You can always say, oh! The finance minister is talking irresponsibly. Is she a political leader or a finance minister? The money which was taken from the party towards National Herald can be given back to the party. Use it. This is so frivolous, but for a national party which has governed this country, you want to spend time on this, pay up your due, get going with your work and set an example for the taxpayers of the country.

But this is not political vendetta?
Nirmala Sitharaman: Absolutely not. From 2021, three, four courts, the appeal court, the high court, the ITAT, everybody. None of the courts said there is no case being made out. The tax authority should step back. So, it is not just me. There is a case. They have to pay the tax.

So, let me ask you, when Hemant Soren is targeted as the opposition says, he steps down. Mr Arvind Kejriwal is tormented by the extortion directorate, as the enforcement directorate is being called, is not this undue pressure on political parties at the time of elections and does this necessarily encourage free and fair polls because you have an unfair advantage of being in the seat of power and putting everybody else on the back foot?

Nirmala Sitharaman: Navika, just as you say free and fair, would you please add law abiding? Eight summons. Eight summons. You have one or the other reason and there you did not tell me that this is political vendetta. You said, no, I have some other work. No, my assembly is on, Budget session is on. No, I have a campaign to go somewhere. At that time, political vendetta did not suit you. Now political vendetta, when even the court has said, go appear. Media should be asking meaningful questions rather than asking me a tongue in cheek.

Media is in a position where it gets beaten up regardless. If we ask you questions, you beat us up. If we do not ask you questions, the opposition beats us up. So, we are quite used to being beaten up.

Nirmala Sitharaman: Opposition beats you up? I do not. None of us do. Do we beat the media? No way. We have not touched the media, but the entire universe, all the brotherhood of journalism everywhere is talking about the freedom of speech in India. I one day sat down and looked at the list of government harassing journalists. Turns out they are all non-BJP governments. But the impression about India outside is because people now look at India, they look at the prime minister and therefore they think he is the one who is harassing. No. In India's federal setup, journalists are getting thrashed in many of the states. And I do not thrash you. But you do not ask them. Hey, why are you thrashing me? Modi does not thrash me. Say it.

I am boycotted. Who do I say this to? But never mind. The question really is -- two chief ministers are behind bars, every political party is on the back foot facing ED questions. You say, you welcome people, very soon people are saying at the rate people are joining the BJP, you will become the reserve political bank of India. You will have to lend candidates to other political parties to fight elections. Is that something that we will see soon?
Nirmala Sitharaman: Very interesting proposition. I think you should hold tonight's nine o'clock debate on it.
