Will the latest GDP numbers — last estimates before Lok Sabha polls — be a game changer?

From the common man's perspective, it's hard to think of a less exciting macro number than the quarterly GDP estimate. Apart from economists, few pay much attention to the NSO quarterly releases of the economy's performance.
This time around, however, there was a palpable air of excitement in the run-up to the publication of Q3 GDP estimates on Thursday. Why? This is the last report card of GoI's economic performance before the Lok Sabha elections.

For the ruling party, good numbers are an opportunity to do some chest-thumping. For the Opposition, good numbers could be a spoiler. But the 'great' thing about macro numbers is that if you dig hard enough - and sometimes even if you don't - you can always find something to beat the government with.

So, how is an impartial observer to interpret the numbers? Is the economy on a roll as GoI claims? Is India a 'star performer', as IMF described it recently? Or do macro numbers - 8.4% in Q3, following on two quarters of 8.2% and 8.1% growth - hide some disquieting trends, negative growth in agriculture, for instance?

The answer is neither easy nor simple. The reason, apart from complexity of the data and inevitable revisions, is that macro numbers are invariably seen through the political economy prism. And with Lok Sabha elections around the corner, it's all about scoring political brownie points.
In such a scenario, the best way to parse the latest numbers may be to see how GDP estimates compare with what finmin had to say in its 'Monthly Report on the Economy' for January 2024, released mid-February.

Finmin: The bedrock of high growth is strong private consumption. Initially driven by release of post-pandemic pent-up demand, private consumption now reflects buoyant consumer sentiment that is generally associated with reduced economic uncertainty.

NSO: Private final consumption expenditure, finmin's 'bedrock of high growth', is 58.6% of GDP in Q3, down from 61.3% in the comparable quarter of the previous fiscal. It would appear finmin's 'buoyant consumer sentiment' is not entirely borne out by the numbers.

Finmin: Investment is consolidating in the economy as high public capex crowds in private investment.
NSO: Gross fixed capital formation (read: investment) was 32.4% of GDP in Q3, down from a revised 34.2% in Q2. Clearly, high public capex is yet to crowd in private investment.

Finmin: The supply response to strong consumption and investment demand is comparable and broad-based. Agriculture is increasingly ensuring food security. And spending on infra and real estate is showing up in the resurgence of the construction sector.

NSO: Food security may not be an issue. But the farm sector, once the growth driver, is lagging. After falling to a 4½-year low of 1.2% in Q2, the sector contracted 0.8% in Q3. This is not good news in a country where more than 50% of the population is dependent on agri, especially on the eve of elections.

Finmin: The robust performance of the manufacturing sector is evident in India's PMI, which has remained in the expansionary zone for the past 31 months. Similarly, the growth of IIP and Index of Eight Core Industries offers fresh evidence of sustained growth in manufacturing activity.

NSO: Manufacturing is doing well even if Q3 growth (11.6%) got a bump-up from the contraction (1.4%) in the comparable quarter of the previous year. Construction has also done well (9.5%), reflecting GoI's thrust on infra. But latest core sector growth numbers (a 15-month low of 3.6%) suggest that not everything is hunky-dory.

Finmin: The services sector has been moving from strength to strength in response to strong private consumption. Tourism is a key services sub-sector and has been on a rising trajectory ever since ebbing of the pandemic.

NSO: Services growth remains robust.

Overall, barring agriculture, the numbers seem to support GoI's claim: the economy's doing well. But will that be enough to swing the vote in the ruling party's favour at the forthcoming general elections?

'Economic conditions shape election outcomes in the world's democracies. Good times keep parties in office, bad times cast them out,' say Michael S Lewis-Beck and Mary Stegmaier in their 2000 Annual Review of Political Science, University of Missouri-Columbia paper, 'Economic Determinants of Electoral Outcomes'. But then comes the kicker. 'Which economic variable is key varies from country to country. It could be unemployment, inflation, or growth, perhaps measured perceptively, perhaps with a lag.'

Today, we are far removed from political commentator Thomas Sowell's dismissive observation, 'The first lesson of economics is scarcity: there is never enough of anything to fully satisfy all those who want it. The first lesson of politics is to disregard the first lesson of economics.'

Today, there is a new class of emerging 'economic voters' who hold the government responsible for economic performance, rewarding or punishing it at the ballot box. Economics does matter. How much, and which variable - GDP or inflation - is key. It's something we can quibble over.

The last word on this, perhaps, belongs to pollster Celinda Lake, who worked on Joe Biden's 2020 campaign. 'You can say the economy is great; GDP is great. Fact is nobody ever bought a dozen eggs with GDP yet.' A sobering thought for a government going into elections looking to wave the GDP flag.
