BJD-BJP realignment guided by pragmatism; a test for Congress to tap Opposition space

While BJP's gains from an imminent alliance with BJD in Odisha are obvious, why did Naveen Patnaik-led party, which has been winning all the Lok Sabha and assembly polls in the state since 2009, opt for a tie-up? With Odisha's two main rivals now becoming allies, what does it mean for the much-marginalised Congress as the sole claimant for the Opposition space? Some senior BJD leaders feel Patnaik's decision to realign with BJP after 15 years showed that he is adopting "pragmatism" and "playing it safe" as he looks to build his legacy at the threshold of a record stint as CM for almost quarter of a century.

They said despite Patnaik's unchallenged sway and his party's winning streak, BJD has been of late witnessing incumbency and internal unease amid talks of the party's sole leader's advancing age. In recent weeks, some BJD leaders, including legislators such as Arbinda Dhali, Pradeep Panigrahai, Prashant Jagdev and Debasis Nayak quit the party and joined BJP. Many felt, given Patnaik's tendency for denying party tickets to many sitting MPs and MLAs in order to bring in new faces, some 'benched' leaders too would have crossed over to BJP ahead of polls. The alliance plugs this.

It is evident that Patnaik is now preferring to let KV Pandian, the bureaucrat-turned-politician and confidant to take the lead, travel across the state and organise meetings on CM's behalf.

A senior BJD leader said: "The more BJD stays in power, the more ambitious local leaders would want tickets or posts, failing which they would be ready to explore it outside, especially in BJP." Hence, BJD campers feel that it made practical sense for BJD chief to befriend its main opponent, BJP, as its main interest now will be in the LS seats.

This also means that the BJP, in return for a steady ally, who can help deliver seats in the LS in Modi government's quest for a third term, has held off for the moment on its ambition of vanquishing the BJD and coming to power in Odisha. It also seems to have reconciled to be a partner-in-waiting, just as it is accommodating the Nitish Kumar-led JDU in Bihar. If the alliance wins the next LS and assembly polls in Odisha, the BJD, it seems, would ideally not want any power-sharing in the state government, and in return, may offer to do the same at Centre.

Congress, which had conceded its once primary position in Odisha to BJD and now slipped behind BJP to the third slot, will find itself alone in the entire Opposition space (post BJD-BJP alliance). This is both an opportunity and challenge for Congress.

"In addition to some cases of 'home-coming' (to Odisha Congress), it is crucial for Congress to tap the existing and potentially growing uneasiness in BJD," said an unhappy BJD leader.
