PM Modi begins Karnataka campaign from Mallikarjun Kharge's Kalaburagi

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday reaffirmed that the BJP would cross 400 seats in the Lok Sabha polls this time, as he asked the people of Karnataka to give him a "guarantee" that they would not let the Congress win even one seat from the state. "The Congress, which came to power in the assembly polls last year, had made big promises, but now Karnataka has been made an ATM of the Congress family," he said.

The PM kicked off the BJP's Lok Sabha campaign in the southern state, speaking in a rally in AICC leader Mallikarjun Kharge's home district Kalaburagi, days after the latter had addressed a gathering there. Slamming the Karnataka Congress regime, he said that the cash-strapped government is only operating to loot as much as it can, knowing that the party cannot win again. Congress MLAs, he said, had been told there were no funds left with the government for development works.

Hitting out at the Siddaramaiah-led Congress government in the state, he said corruption and anarchy ran rampant in the party. "The law and order situation in Karnataka has worsened. Anti-social elements are being given protection in the state," he said. People, he added, have lost confidence in the Congress within a very short span of the party being in power.

The PM urged voters to elect more BJP MPs from Karnataka to ensure effective representation and oversight in Parliament, thereby holding the Congress government accountable for its actions. "The BJP has always worked for the development of Karnataka. We have respected the identity of Karnataka. Wherever I go in the world, I talk about the principles of democracy that were taught to us by Jagadguru Basaveshwara. Taking inspiration from the Anubhava Mantapa, we also named Delhi's Bharat Mandapam after it. This is the place where the G-20 Summit was held. This increased the pride and respect of Karnataka worldwide," he said.

The BJP, which wrested away the Kalaburagi seat from Kharge in the 2019 polls, performed badly in the region in the assembly polls last year. The PM will return to Karnataka on Monday to address a rally in Lingayat veteran BS Yediyurappa's home ground Shivamogga.
