DMK, Congress selective in 'attacking gods', says PM Modi

BENGALURU/NEW DELHI: Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Tuesday raked up the "Shakti" issue again and alleged that the Congress and DMK regularly insult the Hindu religion, be it through opposing Sengol in Parliament or the remarks of Rahul Gandhi at the Shivaji Park which was an insult of goddesses and Bharat Mata.

Speaking at a BJP rally in Salem, Tamil Nadu, where the BJP state unit had organised a special welcome for him on stage by 11 "Shakti Ammas", the PM said while the election campaign has just taken off, the INDI Alliance has shown that it wastes no time in insulting Hindus. "Its leaders do not criticise any other religion and not a single word against those religions is uttered by them," he said. Modi said the plan to destroy Shakti is dangerous and the people will express their anger on April 19 (when Lok Sabha polling takes place).

Rahul Gandhi while speaking at a rally in Mumbai on Sunday had said: "Our fight against Modi is not on a personal level. Modi is a 'mask' who works for a 'shakti' (power). He is a shallow man who doesn't have a 56-inch chest."

However, Modi and the BJP interpreted his words as a reference to Goddess Durga who is worshipped as Shakti. Gandhi has since then clarified that he was referring to EVMs, ED, CBI and the Income Tax department which was being abused to target the opposition.

"The leaders of the INDI Alliance intentionally and repeatedly insult the Hindu religion. Each of their statements against Hinduism is calculated. They objected to the establishment of Sengol, a significant symbol of Tamil culture, in Parliament," Modi said, assuring that he will stand against every threat to women and Hindu culture.

He underlined that Shakti is linked to several goddesses, including in Tamil Nadu where Mariamman, Madurai Meenakshi Amman, and Kanchi Kamakshi Amman temples are located.

Attacking the DMK over mistreating former CM and AIADMK leader Jayalalitha, the PM said. "That is why these people also oppose the Women's Reservation Bill in Parliament. That is why crimes against women are increasing in Tamil Nadu."

Modi also slammed DMK and Congress on dynasty politics and said they are two sides of the same coin. "In Tamil Nadu, 5G means the dominance of fifth generation of the same family," he said, taking digs at the Karunanidhi family.

Modi also paid homage to party state general secretary 'Auditor' V Ramesh, who was hacked to death in 2013. Earlier in the day, the PM participated in a road show in Palakkad in Kerala, visiting the state for the second time in two weeks.
