With Lok Sabha polls around, Congress regime plans mega jobs mela in Bengaluru next week
The State Government will hold a two-day job fair at Palace Grounds in Bengaluru from February 26 as the ruling Congress seeks to highlight the issue of unemployment ahead of the Lok Sabha polls and its own initiatives to address it.

The government has named the event, Yuva Samruddhi Sammelana, for which about 31,000 youth from all over the state have enrolled. “We are expecting more candidates to register," Skill Development Minister Sharan Prakash Patil and IT/BT Minister Priyank Kharge told the media. The Skills Development & Livelihood department is organizing the fair.

Chief Minister Siddaramaiah and Deputy CM DK Shivakumar will kick off the jobs mela which closely follows the roll out of one of the five ambitious Congress party guarantees called Yuva Nidhi. Announced by Congress leader Rahul Gandhi during the assembly election campaign, the scheme offers a monthly stipend of Rs 3000 for graduates and Rs 1500 for diploma holders.

Five hundred plus national and multinational firms would participate in the fair with about one lakh vacancies on offer. “This will be the right platform for the youth to find jobs that suit their qualifications and skills. I urge them to participate in large numbers and make use of this opportunity,” Patil said.

Graduates as well as those who have completed engineering degrees, diplomas, and other job-oriented courses are the targets. Those who have enrolled for the fair will get messages to visit stalls and check out suitable jobs. The government would help unsuccessful candidates with skills training to help them find the right jobs later, the ministers said.

The government would set up about 600 stalls for the enrolled candidates to visit and explore opportunities that suit what they are looking for. Private company executives as well as experts will be present there to offer information to candidates.

No state holds such jobs fairs in the entire country, Patil said crediting the CM for the initiative. “Our efforts will be fruitful only if candidates turn up in large numbers and get job offers,” the Skill Development Minister said.

Kharge highlighted Karnataka’s strengths and said big companies were operating out of Karnataka due to its infrastructure and availability of skilled workforce.

“We are not only providing jobs but are also imparting skills by opening training centres. We will try to provide jobs to those who have registered here by tracking them,” the IT/BT Minister said, adding that the boom in IT companies happened during the UPA regime at the Centre.