Katchatheevu: PM Modi slams DMK, calls out its 'double standards

Stoking the Katchatheevu row once again, PM Narendra Modi on April 1 slammed DMK over its 'callousness' on the issue, a day after he sought to corner Congress on the handing over of the contentious island to neighbouring Sri Lanka.

DMK did nothing to safeguard Tamil Nadu's interests, Modi said, adding that newly emerging details on Katchatheevu revealed the party's double standards.

"Congress and DMK are family units. They only care that their own sons and daughters rise. They don’t care for anyone else. Their callousness on Katchatheevu has harmed the interests of our poor fishermen and fisherwomen in particular," the PM said in an X post.

A day earlier, DMK and its ally - the Congress in Tamil Nadu - criticised Modi over his blame game on the issue. DMK said it had opposed in 1974 the ceding of the island to the neigbouring country.

The Tamil Nadu Congress took Modi-slamming a bit farther, demanding answers from him for the "Chinese incursion" into Indian territory.

In response to Modi's accusation, DMK Organization Secretary R S Bharathi asserted that the Prime Minister lacks notable achievements to present and accused him of propagating falsehoods.

Bharathi emphasized the importance of understanding the historical context before discussing an issue, pointing out that in 1974, the DMK had organized widespread protests and public gatherings to express opposition to and denounce the handing over of Katchatheevu to Sri Lanka.

The DMK's stance on the issue has been repeatedly articulated by the late party leader M Karunanidhi and current party president M K Stalin, the party said. The party's firm opposition to the cession of Katchatheevu to Sri Lanka has been unequivocal. "You can wake someone who is asleep but not a person who is pretending," Bharathi, a former Rajya Sabha MP told PTI.

Bharathi questioned why Modi didn't address the Katchatheevu matter during his ten-year tenure if he was genuinely interested in it.

Prime Minister Modi on March 31 referenced a media report to claim that recent revelations indicate the Congress party "carelessly" surrendered the Katchatheevu island to Sri Lanka.

"Eye opening and startling! New facts reveal how Congress callously gave away Katchatheevu. This has angered every Indian and reaffirmed in people's minds- we can't ever trust Congress," he had said on X sharing the report.

