DMK Manifesto is an absolute failure: BJP's Tamilisai Soundararajan hits out at MK Stalin

Hours after DMK released its poll pitch and candidate list for the 18th Lok Sabha, Tamilisai Soundararajan who recently rejoined BJP slammed Stalin-led party for including promises such as abolition of governor's office, appointment of governor in consultation with the CM of the state in its election manifesto.

"How many times does the CM meet with the governor?" said Tamilisai Soundararajan.

Her response came immediately after CM Stalin's election manifesto hit out at the governor's office earlier in the day, saying that until the office of governor is abolished, a governor of the state should be appointed in consultation with the CM of the state.

"When CM was in opposition, he had met the governor many times but why had they not met the governor when he became CM?" she said, hitting back at the DMK supremo.

"My intention as Governor was to have a good relationship with the CM. How many times does the MK Stalin meet with the governor? For three years, they did not meet the governor," the BJP leader said.

In its election manifesto the DMK hit out at the Governor's office saying that till the office of Governor is abolished, a Governor to the State should be appointed in consultation with the CM of the State. The Manifesto also said that Article 361 which provides immunity from criminal proceedings to Governors will be amended.

Additionally, the DMK said that Thirukural will be made as 'National Book' while National Education Policy and NEET will not be implemented in Tamil Nadu. The Manifesto also said that CAA and UCC will not be implemented in the state.

On the DMK election manifesto, Soundarajan said, "I see the DMK election manifesto as a failure. Have they (DMK government) decreased petrol and diesel prices in Tamil Nadu as the Puducherry Government did it in their state?"

Earlier in the day, Soundarajan rejoined the BJP two days after resigning as the Governor of Telangana and the Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry.

She also expressed her wish to contest Lok Sabha elections, saying the lotus will "bloom" in Tamil Nadu.

After rejoining the BJP, she said, "I want to contest elections and I have expressed my wish to my party too...I am happy to get back the membership card that I have...It's the happiest day. It's a tough decision and a happy decision too. There were many facilities for me as governor, but I left it...I don't regret it even one per cent...Lotus will blossom in Tamil Nadu for sure."

Soundarajan rejoined the party in presence of Tamil Nadu BJP chief K Annamalai.

