'CAA is a grave injustice to the people': Opposition parties stage protest ahead of PM Modi's Assam visit
Guwahati: On the day when Prime minister Narendra Modi arrived in Assam for a two day visit, opposition parties staged a protest in Kaliabor against Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA).
The sit-in protest by the 16-member United Opposition Forum, Assam (UOFA) was held near Kaziranga. Prime minister arrived in the Kaziranga National Park in the evening on Friday, he will spend the night here and on Saturday will embark on the Safari of the park.

UOFA spokesperson and Raijor Dal chief Akhil Gogoi said the protest was initially slated for Saturday but was held a day before at the request of Ahom community organisations.

He said, "The prime minister will be unveiling a statue of Ahom general Lachit Borphukan. As such, the community requested us to change the date of the protest. Hence, we organised it a day earlier."
Assam Pradesh Congress committee President Bhupen Kumar Borah said, " We had sought an appointment with the PM to apprise him of the opposition to the CAA in the state. We have yet to hear from his office."

The UOFA, All Assam Students' Union (AASU) and 30 other organisations had earlier announced holding protests against CAA.

Recently Union Home minister Amit Shah has stated CAA rules will be notified and implemented before Lok Sabha polls. In several places in Assam, police have readied bamboo barricades in anticipation of the protest.

Assam had witnessed violent protests in 2019 and early 2020 after Parliament passed the CAA, which makes minority communities such as Hindus, Sikhs, Buddhists, Jains, Parsis and Christians from Afghanistan, Bangladesh, and Pakistan eligible to apply for Indian citizenship. Five people were killed in the protests.

AASU president Utpal Sarma termed implementation of CAA as a “grave injustice to the people”, he said that the people of Assam have never accepted the CAA and will oppose any step towards its implementation.

Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma recently said that there is no need to protest as the CAA law is challenged in the court, let the court decide.

Sarma, “CAA was passed by the parliament and the matter is challenged in the Supreme Court. There is no use of having a protest here as the Court will settle the same. There are people for and against CAA.”

He added, “Holding protests in Assam will not yield any result and let the Supreme court decide on it”.
