Sandeshkhali is not "Nandigram or Singur"; problem was local, says WB CM Mamata Banerjee

Kolkata: West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said on Friday Sandeshkhali is not a "Nandigram or Singur" and the problem was local, while replying to Prime Minister Narendra Modi's speech yesterday, who slammed the Sandeshkhali incident and torture on women from his public rally in Coochebhar. Modi has attacked the Trinamool government on the Sandeshkhali issue from several public rallies in Bengal.

"Yesterday, the Prime Minister said his fight was against corruption and the atrocities in Sandeshkhali. I want to make it clear that Sandeshkhali is not Singur or Nandigram. A few incidents took place locally but arrests were made. It was our police who made the arrests. We have returned the land to the people as we don’t allow injustice against anyone," Banerjee asserted.

"There were some land grab cases in Sandeshkhali and it was addressed. Arrests have been made," Banerjee said today at a public rally in Tufanganj in Coochbehar. However, she questioned the Prime Minister about Hathras, Sakshi Malik and Bilkis Bano cases and about his intervention. "Can Narendra Modi or BJP answer how many times he went to Hathras? They failed to deliver justice to Bilkis Bano. Wrestler Sakshi Malik was forced to return her awards," Banerjee said.

"The BJP party has destroyed democracy and the country...the biggest corrupt party is BJP-Nirav Modi, Lalit Modi-are they not corrupt? Banerjee questioned.

Once again raising the Sandeshkhali issue, Modi noted that BJP must be strong in Bengal as BJP can stop torture. "BJP fought for Sandeshkhali women. Nari Shakti strengthening is BJP's primary focus," Modi said yesterday.

Meanwhile, Banerjee appealed to ECI to give approval to the state administration to give houses to the affected people whose houses were damaged in the storm in Jalpaiguri, Coochbehar and Alipurduar. "We have written to ECI and urged them to clear and give approval in a bid to give houses to the storm affected," Banerjee from her public rally in Tufanganj.
Banerjee once again lashed out against CAA and said it is a way to NRC and people should not apply. I will not allow NRC or CAA here. You are all citizens. Through your votes, you have elected PM and CM. All schemes introduced by us will continue. Your names are already there in the last few years," Banerjee assured.

