"Can PM make statement clarifying he does not want to amend Constitution?" asks Congress

The Congress Party on Friday asked Prime Minister Narendra Modi to issue a statement clarifying that his government does not intend to amend the Constitution as several Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leaders have claimed in the past.

Congress general secretary Jairam Ramesh on Friday took to X, and hoped that the PM would find some time to address key questions posed by his party during his public rally in Rajasthan's Churu while "unleashing his regular flood of propaganda".

"Today, PM Modi is in Churu in Rajasthan - where incidentally, the sitting MP from the BJP has joined the Congress. While unleashing his regular flood of propaganda, we hope the Prime Minister finds time to address some key questions on India's democracy that have emerged in Rajasthan," the Congress leader said.

"After a sitting MP Anant Hegde revealed that the BJP intends to "change the constitution" if it wins more than 400 seats, another BJP leader from Rajasthan has confirmed this plan. Jyoti Mirdha, BJP candidate from Rajasthan's Nagaur, has also confirmed that the BJP will amend the constitution, and needs a majority in both Houses of Parliament to do so. Such remarks by an increasing number of BJP leaders paint a worrying picture of what Indian democracy might look like if the BJP returns to power. Can the Prime Minister make a statement clarifying that he does not want to amend the Constitution?" Jairam Ramesh said.

He also alleged that the BJP's 'disregard for free and fair elections' has become apparent in recent months

"In early April, former BJP MP from Jhunjhunu, Santosh Ahlawat, was caught on video threatening government employees in Rajasthan if they don't vote for the BJP. In a speech to her party workers, she is heard saying "[A]nybody who doesn't vote for Narendra Modi has no right to sit in a government office in Surajgarh Vidhan Sabha seat." What does PM Modi have to say about his party leaders' comments? How is such rhetoric acceptable in a democracy?" he asked.

Meanwhile, PM Modi on Friday addressed a public rally in support of paralympic gold medalist Devendra Jhajharia who will represent the BJP in the Churu Lok Sabha seat in place of two-time MP Rahul Kaswan. After being denied the BJP ticket Kaswan crossed over to Congress and is now the party's candidate from Churu.

The election for 543 Lok Sabha seats will be held in seven phases starting April 19. Nearly 97 crore voters are eligible to cast votes in the general election. Counting of the votes will be held on June 4.

Rajasthan will go to the polls in two phases, on April 19 and April 26. Polling for 12 Lok Sabha seats will be held in the first phase on April 19, while the remaining 13 seats will be polled in the second phase on April 26.
