Amit Shah launches poll campaign, praises PM Modi

Union Minister for Home and Cooperative Affairs Amit Shah on Friday launched his election campaign for the Gandhinagar Lok Sabha seat in Gujarat, where he heaped praise on Prime Minister Narendra Modi for his handling of national and international affairs.

"When China tried to enter India's territory in Doklam, the entire world watched in silence as to what was to happen. Earlier such incidents were brushed under the carpet. But Narendrabhai looked into the eyes of China and said, 'This is India's land and no entry' and, after 45 days, China withdrew," Shah said, addressing BJP workers.

Modi has also positioned the flag of Indian diplomacy at the highest level globally through his foreign policy, he said, adding: "And that is why Narendrabhai has been the most popular person not only in India but globally for the last four years."

If there is anyone who has done something to secure the country since independence, it is Modi, the home minister said, while adding that Modi left no gap in tackling terrorism, Naxalism or infiltration. "Everyone kept on thinking as to how Article 370 can be abrogated from Kashmir, but he got it done on August 5, 2019," Shah said.

Recollecting his early days in the BJP, Shah said it is only in the BJP that a worker who used to distribute pamphlets and paste posters could go on to become the home minister of the country.
Meanwhile, the Aam Aadmi Party also launched its election campaign from Gujarat on Friday. AAP convener Arvind Kejriwal, at an event in Vadodara, said while Gujarat has been sending 26 MPs from BJP to the Lok Sabha for the last two terms, what was the use of them if they could not raise the concerns of the state in Parliament.

Kejriwal said AAP's Bharuch candidate Chaitar Vasava was put behind bars because he was working for justice to a farmer over his land. Vasava's wife was also incarcerated, he said. They tried hard to woo him, but Vasava remained steadfast with the AAP, the Delhi chief minister said.
