We respect PM's oratory talent but... he needs fresh energy: Oppn reacts to Modi's post Budget address in Lok Sabha

After Prime Minister Narendra Modi's hour and a half long speech during the Motion of Thanks on President's address, the Opposition on Monday called him out and stated that the PM Modi repeating one speech again and again. Congress MP Shashi Tharoor said that the Opposition respects the BJP leader's oratory talent but according to him, today it was below form.

"PM Modi is repeating one speech again and again. I don't understand if he is tired or something has happened. We respect the PM's oratory talent but today it was below form, I think. We were saying that we should not have high expectations because he is giving the same speech. Nehru ji died 60 years back, but he speaks about him. What has happened to PM Modi? I think he needs fresh energy," Tharoor told news agency ANI.

Congress MP Gaurav Gogoi also said that the PM's words made it seem that he was replying to what Mallikarjun Kharge elaborated on in Rajya Sabha regarding the work of UPA.

"The difference is that Mallikarjun Kharge maintained the sanctity of his positions as well as that of the House. PM expressed bitterness and arrogance in his words, this reminded me of what Rahul Gandhi had said in the House - Ravan was defeated by his arrogance. Blinded by arrogance, this Maharaja's government didn't see rising inflation or the fire in Manipur. He arrogantly accused Congress, that is what we had expected of him," he added.

Meanwhile, Lok Sabha MP Danish Ali criticised the Prime Minister for his remarks on Jawaharlal Nehru.

"PM's address was full of pride, which does not suit the post he is sitting on. How can you make fun of the first Prime Minister, Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru? You have no history. Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru stayed in British prisons for 9 years, whereas your ancestors kept apologising to the British, and then were designated as 'Veer'.

"You talk about dynastic politics but cannot see the same in your party. He never said a word about Manipur, the minorities, or women throughout his speech," the Amroha MP said.

On the Prime Minister's prediction of BJP clinching 370 seats in the upcoming elections, Congress MP Manickam Tagore said, "Will he not take oath if they do not reach 370? Can he promise that if the number goes below then the one he announced, he will not take oath? He can make these kinds of election speeches in Parliament but people of India have decided that they have the right. In 2004 too, 'India Shining' was like this and the people of India know that this kind of arrogance will be defeated."
