Electoral bond mystery: Who paid Rs 162 crore in the name of Yashoda Hospital?

The State Bank of India's electoral bond data took many by surprise, including Yashoda Super Speciality Hospital, which found its name on the list of top donors.

With a figure of Rs 162 crore, the bond data lists Yashoda Hospital as the 12th biggest donor to political parties. However, the hospital denied making any donations.

The mystery deepened after it was found that there are four Yashoda hospitals in India - in Ghaziabad and Hyderabad. In Ghaziabad, the Yashoda hospitals are located in Kaushambi (Yashoda Super Speciality Hospitals), Sanjay Nagar (Yashoda Superspeciality Hospital & Cancer Institutes), and Nehru Nagar (Yashoda Hospital and Research Centre).

Initially under the same management led by Dinesh Arora and his brother-in-law PN Arora, the hospitals underwent a legal separation in 2017. The Kaushambi hospital is now under PN Arora, while the Nehru Nagar and Sanjay Nagar hospitals are managed by Dinesh Arora and his son Rajat.

"We have not made any political donations to any party in the form of electoral bonds. Even though the signboard of our two hospitals at Nehru Nagar and at Sanjay Nagar read 'Yashoda Super Specialty Hospital,' our two hospitals are registered with the Medical Council of India and other legal documents under the name of Yashoda Hospital and Research Centre," Dinesh Arora told the Times of India.

PN Arora's group is currently developing Yashoda Medicity, a state-of-the-art 1,200-bed hospital in Ghaziabad, with a planned investment of Rs 500 crore. In response to the speculations, PN Arora's hospital management clarified that they had not engaged in any political donations through electoral bonds. "It has come to our attention that there have been speculations regarding Yashoda Super Speciality Hospital, Kaushambi, involving political donations through electoral bonds. We wish to clarify that our institution has not engaged in any such activity," the statement added.

Meanwhile, the Hyderabad-based Yashoda Healthcare Services Pvt Ltd, owned by G Ravinder Rao and G Surender Rao, distanced themselves from the electoral bond purchases. The owners did buy bonds worth Rs 3 crore in their personal capacity, but the hospital clarified that media reports wrongly attributed the Rs 162 crore bond purchase to their institution. They emphasized that there are multiple hospitals with similar names across the country, leading to confusion. "Unfortunately, our hospital's name was wrongly quoted in the media. There are hospitals with similar names in the country. Many confuse it with ours."

