Raj Thackeray: Can 'marathi manus' add fire power to BJP alliance?

The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is intensifying its efforts to achieve the ambitious goal of securing 400 Lok Sabha seats for its National Democratic Alliance (NDA). In Maharashtra, the BJP-led Mahayuti alliance, which currently comprises the Shiv Sena led by Chief Minister Eknath Shinde and the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) led by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, may soon see an addition to its ranks.

Raj Thackeray's Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) is reportedly in talks to join the Mahayuti alliance. Recently, Thackeray met with Union Home Minister Amit Shah in New Delhi, along with BJP national general secretary Vinod Tawde. This meeting is believed to have discussed the possibility of a political pact, indicating a significant development in Maharashtra's political landscape.

A Shift in Maharashtra's Political Dynamics
Thackeray's potential alliance with the NDA could set the stage for a political clash within the Thackeray family. Raj Thackeray had parted ways with the Shiv Sena, led by his cousin Uddhav Thackeray, to form the MNS. If the MNS joins the NDA, it could result in a direct contest between the Thackeray cousins, potentially reshaping Maharashtra's political equations.

Implications for the Maha Vikas Aghadi
The Shiv Sena's split, with a majority of its MLAs aligning with the Shinde faction, has created an opportunity for the MNS. Raj Thackeray's recent interactions with key political figures, including Eknath Shinde, suggest that he is actively seeking avenues to maintain his political relevance ahead of the 2024 Lok Sabha elections.

As the political landscape in Maharashtra evolves, all eyes are on the unfolding dynamics between the BJP, Shiv Sena, and potential new allies. The entry of the MNS into the NDA could not only impact the state's political scenario but also have broader implications for national politics.

Overtures by Raj Thackeray
The split in Shiv Sena with most of the MLAs deserting Uddhav to join the Shinde bloc created space for MNS.

In July last year, while posters emerged in Mumbai and neighbouring areas, urging estranged Thackeray cousins to come together, Raj Thackeray met CM Eknath Shinde, triggering speculation about his future equations. It was believed that Raj was exploring all options to remain relevant in the 2024 Lok Sabha polls.

MNS spokesperson Sandeep Deshpande had said at that time, “We officially gave them (Shiv Sena) offer in 2014 and 2017 for the same, but they replied in negative. So, if they come to us with offer, our party chief will make the final decision.” It was believed Raj Thackeray would choose to ally with the BJP-Shinde Sena bloc rather than going back to Uddhav.

Early this month, deputy chief minister Devendra Fadnavis said that the decision regarding the alliance with Raj Thackeray's MNS would be made at the right time. As the BJP is in negotiations with Mahayuti alliance comprising Eknath Shinde-led Shiv Sena and Nationalist Congress Party-Ajit Pawar faction on the seat-sharing formula, some reports emerged about BJP having talks with MNS.

Fadnavis said, "MNS has taken an extensive stand; this is not different from our (BJP) stand. We believe in regional pride. The rights of 'Marathi manus' must be protected in Maharashtra, and they must play a wider role".

Fadnavis admitted that there is not much difference between the stand of Raj Thackeray's party and the BJP.

Will MNS strengthen NDA?
While Raj Thackeray enjoys popular support, his party is not exactly a vote catcher. He formed the MNS in 2006 after he left the Shiv Sena due to differences with Uddhav.

In its first elections, the party did well. MNS won 13 assembly seats in the 2009 assembly elections, However, it failed to gain much later. In 2019, MNS had won only one seat. Why is BJP willing to ally with a small party with low electoral performance?

While Raj enjoys a strong following in the state, his party has not made much electoral impact. Then why is the BJP keen on allying with MNS? The answer lies in the huge following Raj enjoys and how the BJP can use one Thackeray to counter another. Uddhav had received sympathy from some sections when Shinde had split the party. Raj can help BJP negate that factor.

Raj can also help BJP soften the Maratha reservation issue. The state has recently seen protests on this issue. Maratha quota activist Manoj Jarange withdrew his indefinite fast last month, 17 days after he began it in support of reservation for Marathas through the OBC quota. His fast drew widespread support from the community. But he said his fight will continue till the state grants reservation to the Maratha community.

Raj's 'marathi manus' appeal can soften this sentiment. Raj had recently said he had told Jarange that reservations for Marathas will not be technically possible and urged the community to not fall prey to false promises. Speaking at an event organised to mark the party's 18th foundation day in Nashik, Thackeray said if one community gets reservations in government jobs and education, all communities will make similar demands.

Maharashtra has 48 Lok Sabha seats. The BJP had won 23 of the 25 seats it had contested in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, while its then alliance partner — undivided Shiv Sena — won 18 of the 23 seats it had contested. MNS, if it joins NDA, will get one seat, most likely in Mumbai where Uddhav's party has traction. What the MSN would bring to the NDA is not one just seat but a whole sentiment that can help BJP and its allies counter Uddhav's influence among sections of Shiv Sena loyalists.

