Assam: Rana Goswami joins BJP; Congress will become a regional party after Lok Sabha polls, says CM Himanta Biswa Sarma

Assam Pradesh Congress Committee’s working president Rana Goswami resigned from the party, and on Thursday joined BJP. Assam chief minister Himanta Biswa Sarma said that BJP will contest 11 Lok Sabha seats and will leave two seats for Asom Gana Parishad and one seat for United People's Party Liberal (UPPL).

AGP will contest Dhubri and Barpeta seats. He said the AGP has a good chance of winning the seat.

Presently All India United Democratic Front President Badruddin Ajmal is MP from Dhubri seat.

Sarma said, “From 2026 assembly polls, women will get 30 percent tickets. There will be new faces in the BJP list of candidates for the Lok Sabha polls as some MPs have expressed their desire not to contest and work for the party.”

The chief minister said, “BJP is confident of wresting 11 seats out of 14 in Assam as of now. In the other three seats there will be competition.”

Sarma who is convenor of BJP floated non-Congress platform Northeast Democratic Alliance (NEDA) said, “In Nagaland, we will support the candidature of Nagaland ruling Nationalist Democratic Progressive Party (NDPP). In Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya state leadership is in discussion with their counterparts.”

Goswami had been elected twice to the state assembly, in 2006 and 2011, from Jorhat as a Congress candidate.

Sarma said, “ It is a landmark day as a working president of Congress and former secretary of AICC Goswami has joined BJP. Goswami had earlier worked in the team of Priyanka Gandhi in Uttar Pradesh. Goswami has been in talks with me for the last six months.”

Sarma said, “Recently Congress leader Kamalakhya Dey Purkayastha, resigned from his post of working president of the state Pradesh congress and announced his support to the development projects of the BJP led government in Assam. There will be many more joining in the future.”

The chief minister said that the Rahul Gandhi-led Bharat Jodo Nyay Yatra was a big boost to the BJP. “Rahul chose a time when the Pran Pratishtha (consecration ceremony) of the Ram Temple. This has offended the Ram Bhakts. Earlier people had read in the media that the Congress party had refused the invitation to attend the ceremony. When people saw him boycotting that event, the downhill journey of Congress started in Assam. Just see after that how people are leaving the party. In times to come only five or six MLAs will remain with the Congress.”

He said that as per the law of nature these people are forced to quit the party may be due to Rahul, constituency, or themselves. “But people will not remain with Congress but join BJP. After 400 seats wins in the Lok Sabha polls, Congress will become a regional party and its national aura will be completely diminished.”

He said that the NDA is on the verge of winning over 400 seats, and workers will be demolished. “Karnataka will be Karnataka Congress, Andhra will be Andhra Pradesh Congress and Assam will be Assam Congress. Congress will be completely fragmented with no national leadership. It will be reduced to a regional organisation however the name of the organisation might remain.
