Lok Sabha Elections: AAP's Kejriwal launches poll campaign, releases slogan

The Aam Aadmi Party has officially kicked off its poll campaign for the Lok Sabha elections to be held this year. General elections are due in April-May.

Delhi Chief Minster, and National Convenor of AAP, Arvind Kejriwal and Punjab CM Bhagwant Mann launched the party's campaign at an event in New Delhi. "Our slogan is 'Sansad mein bhi Kejriwal, tabhi Dilli hogi khush haal',"the Delhi CM said at launch of AAP's LS poll campaign.

"I have made all efforts to serve the people of Delhi who are my family," Kejriwal said.

Kejriwal alleged that the Modi government through the Delhi Lt Governor has stalled every project launched by the AAP government and urged the people to "strengthen" him by sending all seven opposition candidates to Parliament.

"They hate you because you elected and brought an ordinary man to power in Delhi. They demolished Mohalla Clinics with bulldozers, they stopped door-to-door ration delivery scheme, tests and medicines in hospitals," he said.

Punjab chief minister Mann said his state is going to have a 13-0 result in the Lok Sabha polls in favour of AAP. He also accused the Centre of obstructing the work of the Kejriwal government in Delhi and withholding Punjab's funds.

"No one will dare to stop Punjab's funds and work in Delhi if the AAP has a good number of MPs in Lok Sabha," he said.

Kejriwal-led AAP is set to participate in the upcoming Lok Sabha elections in collaboration with the Congress party in five states, including Delhi. This alliance forms a crucial part of the Opposition INDIA bloc's strategy.

For the electoral battle in Delhi, the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has secured the right to contest in four out of the seven Lok Sabha seats. The remaining three seats will be taken up by the Congress, adhering to the terms of the agreement between these two key partners within the INDIA bloc.

The specific constituencies earmarked for AAP in the national capital are New Delhi, West Delhi, South Delhi, and East Delhi. Meanwhile, the Congress party will field candidates in Chandni Chowk, North East Delhi, and North West Delhi.
