Here's what Rahul Gandhi said about INDIA bloc's PM candidate

In a recent statement, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi declared that the selection of the prime ministerial candidate would be a collective decision made by the opposition's INDIA bloc members after the elections. He expressed confidence that the NDA's 2024 campaign would meet a fate similar to the 'India Shining' campaign in 2004. Gandhi emphasized that the ongoing Lok Sabha elections are a battle between those seeking to undermine the Constitution and democracy and those striving to protect them.

During the launch of the Congress manifesto, Gandhi highlighted that the media's portrayal of the election being one-sided is inaccurate and that the contest is much closer than perceived. He affirmed his belief in winning the polls and stressed the importance of governing in the interest of the majority, promoting fair competition among businesses rather than favoring monopolies.

"We do believe that it is very important once this fight is won that we look after the interests of the vast majority of our people, that India is not run for two or three large conglomerates but is run for the vast majority of the people, that we are not a nation of monopolies, we are a nation where there is fair competition among businesses," he said.

Responding to queries about the prime ministerial candidate, Rahul reiterated that the INDIA bloc is focused on an ideological battle and that the leadership post-election will be decided collectively by the coalition.

"INDIA bloc has decided that we are together fighting an ideological election, after winning the election, who will be the leader, the PM, the whole coalition will jointly decide," he said.

He said there was a similar feeling being generated by the press when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the prime minister in 2004 when there was the India Shining campaign.

"So, we have a similar idea being propagated, India Shining, with two-three new dimensions, with full support by the monopolists of the country. But do remember what happened to the India Shining campaign and do remember who won that campaign," Gandhi asserted.

Earlier today, the Congress party released its manifesto focusing on five "pillars of justice" and 25 guarantees under them.

Right to apprenticeship, a legal guarantee for MSP, passing a constitutional amendment to raise the 50 per cent cap on reservations for SCs, STs and OBCs, a nation-wide caste census and scrapping of Agnipath scheme are among the promises made by the Congress in its Lok Sabha polls manifesto.

