PM Modi rakes up Ram Temple, Balakot in Rajasthan

Prime Minister Narendra Modi raised the Ayodhya Ram temple issue at a BJP election rally in Churu, Rajasthan, on Friday, alleging that the Congress has always put appeasement politics over national interest and cited the affidavit in court that claimed Lord Ram is imaginary. He charged the main Opposition with insulting the beliefs and culture of Indians.

Addressing an election rally in Churu, he said, "Congress has always given priority to appeasement over national interest. The country has seen to what extent they can go for this. They had said in court that Lord Ram is imaginary. Some months back, the dream of a grand temple at Ayodhya was fulfilled. The whole country was celebrating the festival of pran pratishta but Congress was openly insulting our beliefs." Modi alleged that the country has had to pay the price for the sins committed by Congress regimes.

"Congress has issued an advisory to its cadre that if the Ram temple issue comes up, you should keep a lid on your lips. Don't say anything. They believe that if they take the name of Ram, they will be finished. This is their state now that an advisory is being issued... the country cannot bear such an insult to its beliefs and faith," he said.

The prime minister also raised the Balakot air strike that took place weeks ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha elections and charged that the Opposition had then asked for proof, which was an insult to the armed forces. "When our armed forces conducted the surgical and air strikes, members of the Ghamandiya (INDIA) coalition were asking for proof. Insult of the armed forces and partition of the country are both hallmarks of Congress. For as long as the INDI Alliance was in power, it kept the hands of the jawans tied. Enemies would attack and go back but they would not allow our army to retaliate. Congress also did not fulfil the demand for OROP. When our government was formed we gave OROP and a free hand in countering attacks at the border," Modi said. However, things changed after he came to power, he maintained. "This is the new India. It enters their homes (territory) and hits them," he said.

The country was in a bad shape in 2014 when he took charge but there has been a turnaround in the last decade, Modi claimed.

"The work done by the Modi government in the last decade has laid the foundation for a Viksit Bharat. The world is surprised at this pace of development.... We finish what we decide to take up. Recall that ten years back the country was in a bad state. The system was crippled due to the loot and scams of the Congress government. The credibility of India was falling. After so many years of Independence, people were struggling for even their basic needs. Crores did not have a roof over their heads, there was no drinking water, our villages were in darkness as there was no electricity, and the government treasury was empty due to years of loot," Modi alleged.

He assured that action would be taken against the corrupt and nothing would deter him from doing so. He also slammed the Congress for not giving the Bharat Ratna to BR Ambedkar for decades after Independence.

