A section of Congress leaders treats Muslims as slaves, says Assam MP who resigned

Congress MP Abdul Khaleque from Assam who had resigned from Congress following denial of party’s ticket on Saturday alleged that a section of leaders in Congress party treats Muslims as slaves.

Khaleque, an MP from Barpeta was denied a ticket. He said that several parties including Asom Gana Parishad (AGP), TMC and AAP, were in touch with him.

Khaleque said that more Muslim candidates should have been nominated by the party in the state. He alleged that a section of arrogant leaders of the Congress view the Muslims as their slaves.

“ Muslims love Congress as the party believes in equality. But some arrogant leaders think of Muslims as servants,” he said.

He pointed to the party’s plenary session in Raipur last year, photographs of former top leaders were hung at the venue, there was no picture of Abul Kalam Azad.

“Maulana Abul Kalam Azad had been the party’s president in the 1940s, a very crucial time. His overall contribution to the nation is also immense. When his photo was left out, it hurt many like me,” he said.

Khaleque, a two-time MLA and one-time MP, had sent his resignation from primary membership of Congress to its national president on Friday, days after the party dropped him from its list of candidates for the forthcoming elections.

In the resignation letter, he claimed that the party has taken a “strange route” in the state, and “the attitude and approach taken by the party’s state president and AICC general secretary in-charge has ruined the prospects of the party in Assam”.

Khaleque said, “As I was in the party earlier, I was bound by discipline. But now I can speak freely as I have quit.” He claimed that he had informed of his grievances towards Borah and AICC general secretary in-charge of Assam Jitendra Singh to the party central leadership, and even wrote to Singh with his issues concerning the party in February but failed to get any proper response.

“Somehow, Jitendra Singh has some personal vendetta against me, I don’t know the reason for it. Finally, I had to quit the party,” Khaleque added.
