Need funding transparency & donor privacy: CEC Rajiv Kumar

After announcing the Lok Sabha election schedule on Saturday, chief election commissioner Rajiv Kumar responded to some questions including the Supreme Court's crackdown on the electoral bands scheme, postponement of J&K assembly elections, and the sudden exit of Arun Goel as election commissioner.

Flanked by two newly appointed election commissioners Sukhbir S Sandhu and Gyanesh Kumar in a press conference, the CEC said, "As you see, our team is now complete."

He said Goel was a "distinguished team member" with whom he enjoyed working, adding that one must respect "if he had personal reasons to quit".

Kumar also said the poll panel has always had a sound tradition of 'dissent' and discussion and it is encouraged as well as desirable in the future as well. He said everyone should be given their personal space and "we should respect their personal decisions".

J&K polls

While the Election Commission of India (EC) announced elections to J&K's five parliamentary constituencies, it has put off the assembly polls again, citing huge security requirements, even as the CEC said he respects the view of political parties in the state that strongly demanded assembly polls.

"However, in administrative meetings, all officers said that there would be heavy security demands," he said. "Since there will be security demand in the entire country when LS polls are underway, it will be difficult to provide security in J&K (for hundreds of assembly election candidates) at the same time."

He said the poll panel is committed to holding assembly polls in J&K and would do so at the earliest possible after the Lok Sabha polls, and insisted that there is no delay at the EC's end.

Electoral Bonds

The CEC said the poll panel's position on electoral bonds has always been "in favour of transparency". In a democracy, "there is no scope for hiding anything" and the country must evolve an "institutional mechanism" on funding, which ensures "minimum cash economy" and "unaccounted funding" in elections, he said. Kumar, however, said the mechanism should consider protecting the "donor's privacy" to ensure they are not "harassed".

The Machines

The CEC defended EVMs and VVPATs, citing over 40 cases where the courts upheld the machine's efficacy and sanctity in the poll process.
