Congress demoralised, no senior neta mustered courage to contest: Bhupender Yadav

From managing polls in several states like Madhya Pradesh and Rajasthan, Union minister and BJP now faces a reversal of roles. Bhupender Yadav is contesting his first election from Alwar Lok Sabha seat in Rajasthan. He spoke to Jatin Takkar while filing his nomination papers in Alwar.

On how it is different to contest an election rather than manage one.
Under the party leadership's guidance, I successfully managed elections in several states. It is my good fortune that the BJP nominated me to contest the Lok Sabha election. The roles are different in both cases. As an election manager, you strategise and supervise elections for others. Now, the organisational leaders of Alwar will guide me. In both cases, my approach is the same -- that of a disciplined organisational worker.

Being BJP's national executive member from Haryana, what it is like to contest from Rajasthan?

In the BJP, the organisation is supreme and whatever my party decides and instructs me, I work accordingly. I was born in Jamalpur in Haryana and spent a substantial part of my life in Alwar. As a Rajya Sabha MP from Rajasthan, I specifically focussed on the development of Alwar and set up e-libraries and playgrounds with my MPLAD funds.

On BJP asking most of its Union ministers from the Rajya Sabha to contest Lok Sabha polls.
It is good...there is a difference between being a Rajya Sabha MP and a Lok Sabha MP. The MP of the lower house has a Parliament constituency to take care of and he has to work for the aspirations of that segment and also increase his direct engagement with the public on a daily basis.

On BJP losing five of the eight assembly segments in Alwar in the recent assembly polls.
There is nothing like that. Lok Sabha polls are fought on national issues and this time the election is on Modi Ki Guarantee and people are overwhelmingly supporting prime minister Modi. After the BJP came to power in Rajasthan, the state chief minister Bhajan Lal Sharma initiated the Eastern Rajasthan Canal Project (ERCP), an ambitious drinking and irrigation water project that will resolve the water-related problems of Alwar.

On Congress being the main challenger in Rajasthan

Congress is demoralised and hopeless as none of its senior leaders in the state, whether it be Ashok Gehlot or Sachin Pilot, have entered the election fray. Congress' entire campaign is based on personal remarks. NDA is marching successfully while INDI alliance is deteriorating with every passing day.