PM Modi alleges INDIA bloc formed to protect corrupt, claims he has ensured they are put behind bars

Even as the INDIA bloc held a massive rally here on Sunday against the arrest of Arvind Kejriwal, Prime Minister Narendra Modi kickstarted the NDA Lok Sabha campaign from Meerut in west Uttar Pradesh with a public meeting where he alleged that the Opposition has formed a coalition to protect the corrupt while he has ensured that those engaged in huge corruption are put behind bars.

“In the last ten years, the country has seen that we have started the fight against corruption, we have ensured that no middleman is able to steal money from the poor… I am fighting against corruption and because of this, some people are facing problems… Modi’s mantra is remove corruption and they say ‘save the corrupt’. This election is between the NDA, which is fighting against corruption and the other group, which is fighting to save the corrupt,” he said at the joint rally of NDA partners.

He took digs at the Opposition on corruption and the formation of INDI Alliance to fight him.

“Some people are rattled by the achievements of my government in the last ten years and have lost their balance… I will not stop at any cost to fight corruption. They have formed the INDI Alliance to protect the corrupt. Those engaged in huge corruption are behind bars,” Modi said.

He alleged that during Congress rule thousands of crores of rupees of small investors and the poor were wrongfully confiscated. “We have confiscated the property of the corrupt and more than Rs 17,000 Crore have been returned to those whose money had been wrongfully taken from them,” he said.

Modi also mentioned the Bharat Ratna to Chaudhary Charan Singh, former prime minister and a farmer leader from the Jat community that has a sizable presence in west UP. The INDI Alliance hates farmers and did not even give due respect to Chaudhary Charan Singh… When Jayant Chaudhary (RLD) rose to speak in Parliament on the Bharat Ratna, an attempt was made to muffle his voice and humiliate him,” Modi said, seeking an apology from SP and Congress.

Prime Minister Narendra Modi asserted that his government has in the last decade achieved goals considered “impossible” like Ram temple at Ayodhya, abrogation of Article 370, banning triple talaq and implementing the one-rank-one-pension for the defence forces. He slammed the Opposition on the issue of corruption and raked up the Katchatheevu islands issue, alleging the Indira Gandhi led Congress government had callously conceded it to Sri Lanka.
“In the last ten years of my government you have only seen the trailer of development….I will share the report card of the last ten years of the NDA government. Goals achieved by the government are ones which were conceived as impossible,” Modi said, adding that he is already working towards chalking out plans for the next five years to propel the nation further ahead on the path of development.

The prime minister underlined that his government is in the process of preparing the roadmap for the next five years and the decisions and plans to be set in motion in the first 100 days of the next government.

Among the achievements of his government, the prime minister mentioned construction of the Ram temple at Ayodhya, saying Lord Ram played Holi in Oudh (central UP) along with Lord Krishna in Braj, a reference to the temple at Mathura. Modi also referred to the one-rank-one-pension for defence personnel and maintained that its implementation was looked at as an impossible task but his government has given Rs 1 Lakh Crore to the defence forces under this scheme.

Similarly, the ban on triple talaq is saving the lives of Muslim women. The passage of Nari Vandan Adhiniyam (Women’s Reservation law) has empowered women.

“The abrogation of Article 370 was seen as impossible. But after it was abrogated, Jammu and Kashmir is developing at a fast pace. This is why people are going to bless us with 370 seats,” he said.

The prime minister referred to the RTI expose about handing over Katchatheevu Island to Sri Lanka. “Today, another anti-national act of the Congress has come to light. Katchatheevu is an island off of the coast of India between Sri Lanka and Tamil Nadu and is extremely important from the perspective of national security… Four-five decades ago Congress said this island was not important for us and cut off part of Maa Bharati and separated it from India,” Modi said.

This decision has led to difficulties for people of Tamil Nadu, he maintained. The fishermen fishing in this region are caught by Sri Lanka.

“Can such a coalition be trusted to keep the country safe? It cannot think about the well-being of farmers and soldiers,” Modi said.

