Congress manifesto for Lok Sabha election 2024: Key announcements and highlights

The Congress party released its manifesto for the upcoming 2024 Lok Sabha elections on April 5. Top party leaders including Rahul Gandhi, Sonia Gandhi, Mallikarjun Kharge, KC Venugopal and P Chidambaram, etc, among others, were present during the release of the keenly-awaited document.

The name of the party's manifesto this time is ‘Nyay Patra'. 'Paanch Nyay' and 'Pachees Guarantee' is the broad theme of the party's manifesto this time.

Congress will conduct nationwide socio-economic and caste census, said the party manifesto.
Opening the speeches at the programme, former FM P Chidambaram underlined the party's view on the state of India under BJP, saying that democracy has been diminished in the country under the saffron party's reign.

Democracy and institutions have been diminished in the country under BJP, said Chidambaram. Besides, economic growth under Modi rule has been around 5.8%, which is a big scale-down from UPA's times, said Chidambaram.

Apart from these five pillars or guarantees, the manifesto also touched upon the guarantees made by it to the people as part of its poll promises for 2024 Lok Sabha elections.

Ahead of the release of the manifesto, all eyes were on whether the party would give thrust on welfare measures like providing financial assistance to marginalised sections of the society and ensuring that they get justice and be part of the state welfare measures.

In the manifesto, for the first time, the party also promised the country's youth the 'right to employment'.

After the release of the manifesto, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, in response to questions by mediapersons, said that this election is "between those who are trying to destroy Constitution and democracy and those trying to protect them."

Here is a look at the key statements and promises made by the grand old party in its poll manifesto:
The name of the party's manifesto this time is ‘Nyay Patra'.
Congress will conduct nationwide socio-economic and caste census, said the manifesto.
Congress guarantees it will pass constitutional amendment to raise the 50% cap on reservations for SC, ST and OBC.
Congress will conduct nationwide socio-economic and caste census.
The manifesto appealed to people to look beyond religion, language, caste; choose wisely and install democratic government.
General election presents opportunity to radically change style of governance that has been in evidence over past decade, said the manifesto.
Congress' manifesto promised to fill nearly 30 lakh vacancies in sanctioned posts at various levels in the central government.
Rajasthan model of cashless insurance of up to Rs 25 lakh will be adopted for universal healthcare, said the manifesto.
Ten per cent quota in jobs, educational institutions for EWS will be implemented for all castes, communities without discrimination.
In the manifesto, the party promised to abolish Agnipath programme and direct Armed Forces to resume normal recruitment to achieve full sanctioned strength.

The manifesto guaranteed new right to apprenticeship act to provide one year apprenticeship to every diploma holder or graduate below age of 25.
Congress will launch urban employment programme guaranteeing work for urban poor in reconstruction, renewal of urban infrastructure, the manifesto said.
Congress said it will reserve one-half (50 per cent) of central government jobs for women starting 2025.
The party promised to immediately restore full statehood to Jammu and Kashmir.
Allegations against persons who were allowed to escape law after joining BJP will be probed, promised the party's poll document.
Congress will abolish contractualisation of regular jobs in government, PSUs and ensure regularisation of such appointments, the manifesto promised.

The poll manifesto said the party will launch Mahalakshmi scheme to provide Rs 1 lakh per year to every poor Indian family.
As a one-time measure of relief, the amount due including unpaid interest as on 15 March 2024 in respect of all student educational loans will be written off and the banks will be compensated by the government.

Congress' manifesto guaranteed to set the national minimum wage at Rs 400 per day.
Congress will replace the GST laws enacted by the BJP/NDA government with GST 2.0. The new GST regime will be based on the universally accepted principle that GST shall be a single, moderate rate (with a few exceptions) that will not burden the poor.
The manifesto promised to launch an urban employment programme guaranteeing work for the urban poor in reconstruction and renewal of urban infra.

Congress promised to enact a Direct Taxes Code "that will usher in an era of transparency, equity, clarity and impartial tax administration of direct taxes".
Congress will eliminate “Angel tax” and all other exploitative tax schemes that inhibit investment in new micro, small companies and innovative start-ups, it said.

