'Misplaced, misinformed, unwarranted': MEA reacts to US' remarks on CAA

The ministry of external affairs (MEA) on Friday termed the United States' remarks on the implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) as "misplaced, misinformed and unwarranted."

The MEA also called it an "internal matter of India".

"As regards the US State Department's statement on the implementation of CAA, and there have been comments made by several others, we are of the view that it is misplaced, misinformed and unwarranted. India's constitution guarantees freedom of religion to all its citizens," MEA spokesperson Randhir Jaiswal said in a press briefing.

"There are no grounds for any concern or treatment of minorities. Vote bank politics should not determine views about a laudable initiative to help those in distress. Lectures by those who have a limited understanding of India's pluralistic traditions and the region's post-partition history are best not attempted. Partners and well wishers of India should welcome the intent with which this step has been taken," he said.

Earlier today, US state department spokesperson Matthew Miller expressed concerns about the notification of the CAA in India and said it is keeping a close eye.

"We are concerned about the notification of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act on March 11. We are closely monitoring how this act will be implemented," State Department spokesperson Matthew Miller said.

The MEA underlined that the CAA is about giving citizenship, not taking away citizenship.


"The Citizenship Amendment Act 2019 is an internal matter of India and is in keeping with India's inclusive traditions and a long-standing commitment to human rights. The act grants a safe haven to persecuted minorities belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Buddhist, Parsi and Christian communities from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Bangladesh who have entered India on or before 31st December 2014," the MEA said.

"CAA addresses the issue of statelessness, provides human dignity, and supports human rights," Jaiswal added.

The ministry of home affairs on March 11 notified the Citizenship Amendment Rules which will now facilitate minorities facing persecution on religious grounds in Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan to obtain Indian citizenship.

The rule enables granting of citizenship to citizens of Pakistan, Bangladesh and Afghanistan belonging to Hindu, Sikh, Jain, Christian, Buddhist & Parsi communities, who had migrated to India on (or)before December 31, 2014. An online system for application, processing & grant of citizenship under CAA is being explored by home ministry.
