PM Modi vows to be back in power and deliver full Budget after Lok Sabha elections

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Wednesday addressed the media ahead of the Budget Session of Parliament and vowed to deliver a full budget post the Lok Sabha elections scheduled in 2024.

"Keeping in line with the tradition, we will present the full budget after getting voted back to power," he said.

PM Modi also hailed Nari Shakti in his address. He said, "Nari Shakti Vandan Adhiniyam was passed during the first session of this new Parliament. On January 26, the country witnessed women power and valour at Kartavya Path. President Droupadi Murmu's guidance later today and presentation of interim Budget tomorrow by Nirmala Sitharaman is like a festival of women empowerment."
He further stated that this time around, the finance minister will present the budget with "disha-nirdeshak baatein". "I am of the firm belief that the country is going ahead by crossing new heights of progress every day. All-round and inclusive development is taking place. This journey will continue with the blessings of people," PM Modi added.

In his speech, PM Modi urged the disruptive Members of Parliament to use this session as an opportunity to repent and not create ruckus inside the Parliament. He said, "I hope the MPs who are in the habit of ripping apart democratic values will self-introspect on what they did in their term as members of Parliament. Those who contributed positively to the Parliament will be remembered by all. But those members who caused disruptions will hardly be remembered.This budget session is an opportunity for repentance and to leave positive footprints. I urge all the MPs not to miss this opportunity and perform their best."

The Budget Session of Parliament, the last of the present Lok Sabha, will begin at 11am with an address by President Droupadi Murmu to a joint sitting. All eyes will be on the President's address and the interim budget Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman presents on February 1, as they are likely to offer a glimpse into the ruling BJP's agenda for the Lok Sabha polls, expected in April-May.

Following the customary all-party meeting on the eve the a session, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Pralhad Joshi said the government sought the cooperation of all the parties for the short session, even as the main opposition Congress raised issues like the alleged attack on Rahul Gandhi-led Bharat Jodo Yatra in Assam, the alleged "misuse" of probe agencies and the Manipur situation.

Joshi said the main agenda of the 17th Lok Sabha's brief session, set to conclude on February 9, was the President's Address, the presentation of the Interim Budget and the debate on the Motion of Thanks on the President's Address with a reply by PM Modi.

Emerging from the customary all-party meeting, Parliamentary Affairs Minister Joshi described the interaction as "very cordial" and said the government was ready to discuss every issue during the brief session.

Joshi said the government did not have any legislative agenda for the Budget Session and its thrust would be on the President's Address, debate on the Motion of Thanks, presentation of the Interim Budget and the budget for Jammu and Kashmir.

"They have given suggestions, but since this is the last session of the present Lok Sabha. We have said, we will give them an opportunity in the next session," Joshi said in a lighter vein amid confidence in the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance that it will retain power in the elections.

Though Parliament will be passing only the interim budget for the rest of the tenure of the government, the minister may make a host of proposals to woo different voting blocs to highlight what the government will do if reelected.

Then Finance Minister Piyush Goyal had made a host of proposals, including tax sops and welfare measures, in the interim budget he had presented in 2019 before the elections, which saw the government retain power with a stronger mandate.

