PM Modi: Have given 1.5 times more jobs than previous govt in 10 years

In the wake of the opposition's charge of growing unemployment in the country, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday asserted that his government has created 1.5 times more jobs than the UPA dispensation, and the recruitment process is fast and transparent.

Distributing employment letters at a Rozgar Mela, the Prime Minister said, "Today, more than one lakh youth have been given appointment letters for government jobs. You have achieved this success through hard work."

Modi also laid the foundation stone for Phase I of Karmayogi Bhavan in Delhi. The PM made a special mention of the growth in the startups and the ongoing transformation in the railways.

"Since 2014, we have tried to mainstream the youth and help them contribute to nation-building. We have provided 1.5 times more employment opportunities in 10 years compared to the governments before us. Today, an integrated training complex has also been inaugurated in Delhi. . I am confident that this will strengthen our resolve for capacity building," Modi said.

Slamming the previous Congress-led UPA government, Modi alleged that they had deliberately caused delays in providing jobs due to corruption. "The right to give jobs to the youth in the government is continuously progressing at a fast pace. In earlier governments, it used to take a very long time from the issue of job advertisement to the issuance of appointment letters. Taking advantage of this delay, the game of bribery was also rampant during that time. We have now made the recruitment process in the government completely transparent," he said.

He emphasised that his dispensation ensures not just timely completion of the recruitment process but also that the process followed is clean, which provides equal opportunities for the youth.

"Today every youth has faith that he can get his due placement based on hard work and his talent. Since 2014, we have endeavoured to connect the youth with the government and make them partners in nation-building," Modi said.

The PM also underlined the huge growth in startups in India. "India is the third largest startup ecosystem in the world with about 1.25 lakh startups... Many of these startups are from tier 2 or tier 3 cities," Modi said, adding that this sector has been creating new job opportunities and has been given tax rebate in the budget. He also mentioned the Rs 1 lakh crore fund that has been announced in the budget for promoting research and innovation.

He also claimed improvement in connectivity has created new markets, helped in expansion of tourism, new businesses and creation of lakhs of jobs. "Investment in infrastructure is being ramped up to accelerate development," Modi said.

New rail, road, airports, and waterways projects will create new job opportunities, the PM maintained.

Noting that many of the new appointments are in paramilitary forces, the Prime Minister said from January onwards, examinations will be conducted in 13 Indian languages, apart from Hindi and English. He also highlighted the increase in the quota for border and extremism-affected districts.
