Congress releases document accusing BJP-led govt in Assam of misrule, corruption and nepotism

Guwahati: With the issuance of the notification for the first phase of Lok Sabha elections scheduled on April 19 for 15 seats in eight northeastern states, the process of filling of nominations began on Wednesday, Congress party in Assam on Wednesday in released a document accusing the BJP-led government of misrule, corruption, and nepotism, and claimed that the opposition alliance it leads will win most of the Lok Sabha seats in Assam.

Congress General Secretary Jitendra Singh released a document, which it named 'charge sheet', levelling 60 allegations against the ruling coalition.

The document has been prepared by the United Opposition Forum Assam (UOFA), formed in the state with 16 parties in line with the Indian National Developmental Inclusive Alliance (INDIA).

In Assam AAP, TMC and CPI(M) have put a candidate in the seats where Congress have announced candidates. Singh said, “We are in talks and things will be resolved. This is a matter within the family and it can be resolved within the us. If we cannot reach consensus there might be a friendly contest however efforts are on to resolve the issues.”

The Naga People's Front (NPF) Central Working Committee (WC) has approved the name of Kachui Timothy Zimik as NPF official candidate for Outer Manipur Parliamentary Constituency. The party has denied a ticket to sitting MP Lorho S. Pfoze.

Of the 15 parliamentary seats, polling would be held in Outer Manipur in two phases on April 19 and April 26.
Notifications for the elections to the 60-member Arunachal Pradesh Assembly and 32-member Sikkim Assembly were also issued on Wednesday beginning the process of filing of nomination papers.

According to the schedule announced by Chief Election Commissioner (CEC) Rajiv Kumar, the last date for filing nomination papers for the Lok Sabha and the assemblies in Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim is March 27 and scrutiny of candidatures would take place the next day.

The last date for withdrawal of nominations is March 30.The counting of votes for the Arunachal Assembly polls would be done on June 2 and for the Lok Sabha on June 4.

Of the 15 Lok Sabha seats going to the polls on April 19, five are in Assam and there are two seats each in Arunachal Pradesh, Meghalaya, Manipur (one partly) and one each in Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim.

In the second phase on April 26, voting will be held in another five seats in Assam, the other seat in Tripura, and in the remaining part of Outer Manipur.

Polling will be held in the remaining four seats in Assam in the third phase on May 7.

In the last parliamentary elections in 2019, the polling was held in the eight northeastern states in three phases.

Of the region's 25 Lok Sabha seats, seven are reserved for the tribals, and one for the Scheduled Castes.
As all the eight northeastern states share International Borders, senior security officials said that special security measures have been taken along the 1,643-km-long border with Myanmar, the 1,880 km border with Bangladesh, the over 1,300 km border with China, the 516 km border with Bhutan, and the 98 km border with Nepal.
