BJP's Rajya Sabha MP Ajay Pratap Singh resigns from party over Lok Sabha candidate selection

Rajya Sabha member Ajay Pratap Singh from Madhya Pradesh announced his resignation from the Bharatiya Janata Party's primary membership, citing dissatisfaction with the candidate selection process for the upcoming Lok Sabha elections.

The Rajya Sabha member also slammed BJP for indulging in "large-scale corruption". Singh claimed that corrupt people are getting protection in the saffron party and it has become an "adda" (meeting place) of political traders.

The Rajya Sabha member, who hoped to get the party ticket for the Sidhi Lok Sabha seat, is unhappy with how the tickets are being distributed. He claimed that although the party said they would choose candidates based on a survey of people, they haven't followed through with this policy.

Singh, who shared his resignation letter on social media, expressed his decision by stating, 'I am resigning from the primary membership of the party.'

While Singh did not disclose the specific reason for his resignation in the letter, he highlighted his discontent with the party's nomination process.

"There is a difference in what the BJP says and what it does" PTI cited Ajay Pratap Singh.

"BJP has declared its candidate. I have no opposition to any candidate, but I have objection and disagreement with the selection system of the party. I am not able to accept it. All this has been reflected in my resignation letter," he said.

For the last 15-20 years, the BJP has been in control in Madhya Pradesh, and for a decade, they've held power at the national level.

"I felt several things in the party during this period. I couldn't say them when by staying in the party, but I can say those things now. Corruption is prevailing in the party on a large scale. Corrupt persons are getting protection on a large scale. Politics have become a medium of business...Rather we can say that the party has become an 'adda' of political traders," Singh alleged.

Singh said that earlier, the BJP used to be known for "tyag, tapasya aur balidan" (sacrifice and penance), but the party can't boast that anymore.

"The slogan of Viksit Bharat (developed India) is hollow. My commitment is for the people of Sidhi-Singrauli.. I have decided to give my remaining life to them," he said.

The Rajya Sabha member stated that he didn't believe the BJP was the right fit for accomplishing his goal of serving the people. As a result, he made the decision to resign from the party.

"I didn't find BJP suitable, so I am resigning from the party," he said.

Appointed by the BJP in March 2018, Singh's term in the Rajya Sabha concludes on April 2, as the party did not nominate him for re-election. In a conversation with media, Singh voiced his disappointment over not being chosen as the candidate for the Sidhi Lok Sabha constituency, which was instead given to Rajesh Mishra by the BJP.
