2024 Lok Sabha Elections: Opposition bloc begins Bihar campaign with joint rally

Opposition parties in Bihar on Sunday launched their campaign for the 2024 Lok Sabha elections with a joint rally in Patna, a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Bihar. Called the 'Jan Vishwas Rally', it was attended by leaders from RJD, Congress, SP, CPI (ML), CPI and CPI(M).

RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav hit out at the NDA government in Bihar and tried to redefine his party.

"What the grand alliance government did in the last 17 months in the state, Nitish ji, who has joined hands with BJP, could not do in the last 17 years," Tejashwi told the crowd. He came down heavily on Nitish Kumar for his recent volte-face and reiterated his earlier statement that no one can rely on the guarantee of Nitish Kumar on whether he would not change sides again. Attacking BJP, he called the party a factory of lies and said that it was during his father Lalu Prasad's tenure as railway minister that the railways registered a profit."

As part of his party's latest strategy, Tejashwi is trying to reposition the party from its traditional MY (Muslim-Yadav) image to attract new voters. He redefined his party saying that in RJD, R stands for Rights, J for Jobs and D for Development. "We are a MY- BAAP party, B stands for Bahujan, A for 'Agda' (upper caste), A for 'Aadhi Aabadi' (women) and P for poor," Tejashwi said.

Samajwadi Party president Akhilesh Yadav said if UP and Bihar can defeat the BJP in 120 Lok Sabha seats, the party cannot come to power.

Congress leader Rahul Gandhi attacked the central government saying that the NDA government is only working for a chosen few and neglecting the Dalits and Backward Caste who comprise 73% of the population. Congress president Mallikarjun Kharge lauded Tejashwi for his initiative on government jobs and asked him not to take back Nitish Kumar if tries to come back.

Left leaders Dipanka Bhattacharya, Sitaram Yechuri and D Raja also spoke at the rally urging the crowd to dethrone the BJP government at the Centre and in the state. The Opposition parties are working on seat-sharing arrangements in Bihar and sources told ET that the formula would be announced within a week.
