Congress manifesto promises 50% cap on SC-ST-OBC quota, 50% women reservation in govt jobs

Congress has promised to raise the 50% cap on SC-ST-OBC reservations, implement 50% women's quota in central government jobs from 2025, and carry out caste survey, tax reforms and incentives for startups and MSMEs if it wins the upcoming general elections.

Its election manifesto, 'Nyay Patra', released by top leaders at the party headquarters here on Friday also promised focused job creation for youth, Rs 1-lakh direct cash transfer to women heads of poor families, and extending reservation to private sector educational institutions even as it attempted a balancing act by favouring 10% EWS quota for the poor among "all castes and communities without discrimination", among a slew of social welfare measures.

The party reiterated its commitment to economic reforms, stressed the importance of wealth creation and the critical role of the private sector, and vowed to carry out tax reforms including enacting a Direct Tax Code. It promised 'GST2.0' with a maximum possible single moderate tax rate.

It promised to change the election law by synchronised use of electronic voting machines and paper ballots with matching EVM-generated results with voter-verified paper audit trials (VVPATs).

The party paused its stand on reviving old pension schemes nationwide. Manifesto chairman P Chidambaram said OPS "is very much in our mind" but the party will make its stand clear after seeing the Centre's upcoming report on reviewing the pension system for government employees.

It is no secret that Congress electoral play with promise of reviving OPS lost much of its steam after the recent defeats in Rajasthan and Chhattisgarh, which had showcased OPS. However, the Rajasthan model of cashless insurance up to ₹25 lakh will be extended as universal healthcare.

Several promises containing in 'Nyay Patra' - which comes with photos of party chief Mallikarjun Kharge and de-facto leader Rahul Gandhi on the cover in addition to another snapshot of Gandhi leading his recent yatra - has already been made public in the form of five sets of 25 "Congress guarantees".

Asked which of the two Congress leaders on the cover will be the PM candidate, Gandhi said INDIA Bloc leaders are fighting it as an ideological election and they will decide the PM nominee after winning the poll. Kharge said the manifesto outlined the Congress commitment to usher in "Nyay" (justice) for every section of the society.

The manifesto also committed to restoring statehood for Jammu & Kashmir and ensuring legally guaranteed minimum support prices for key agricultural products.

It promised to amend the Right to Education Act to make education up to Class 12 free and compulsory in public schools and amend the contentious New Education Policy.

Scrapping the Agneepath scheme for recruitment into the armed forces and reviving and implementing one-rank-one-pension scheme are among Congress promises.


In the wake of controversies about hijab and universal civil code (UCC), the party has promised minorities the right to choose their dress and food habits. It promises to "encourage reforms of personal laws" but "with participation/consent of the communities concerned". It opposed extra-judicial illegal measures including mob-lynching, "bulldozer justice" and promised to crack down against hate crimes. It reiterated its opposition to 'one nation, one election' idea.

Faced with mounting BJP poaching on its MLAs and MPs, the manifesto favoured amending the 10th Schedule and making defection "an automatic disqualification" from the respective legislative house. It promised to review and change those laws passed by the NDA government without proper parliamentary scrutiny and to "put an end to the weaponisation" of laws.

It promised to establish a National Judicial Commission that will be responsible for appointment of Supreme Court and High Court judges. Two divisions of the Supreme Court will be created - a Constitutional Court and a Court of Appeal, the Congress manifesto said.

It promised to restore the status quo ante on borders with China. It also promised to restore India's global standing as a voice of peace and moderation and claimed that the NDA regime's foreign policy marked a change from national consensus, especially on the Gaza conflict.

Manifesto also promised to bring a law to recognise civil unions between couples belonging to the LGBTQIA+ community after wide consultations.
