CAA a game changer in all Matua belts of Bengal in 2024 Lok Sabha polls

Kolkata: With implementation of Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) ahead of Lok Sabha election, a long term demand of the Matua communities in West Bengal, have been met and it will work as a game changer in 2024 Lok Sabha polls in North 24 Parganas, Nadia, Malda and North Bengal all other districts where Matuas reside. The Matua community were seen amid joyous celebrations in Matua belt of Bongaon and other places as they welcomed the CAA and similar pictures of celebrations were witnessed in Siliguri and Hooghly.

"The refugees will receive their citizenship rights. This has been possible for Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the entire refugee and Matua communities is indebted to PM Narendra Modi and Union Home Minister Amit Shah. The central government has not put any conditions. We were waiting this to happen for long. Our future generation has been secured by PM Modi," Thakur said.

Joyous celebrations followed in Bongaon's Thakurnagar, Siliguri and other parts of the state following announcements by CAA by the central government. The Matuas are a closely-knit group belonging to the Namashudra (Dalit/SC) community. The sect was founded by Harichand Thakur, who was born at Orakandi in 1812 in erstwhile Bengal.

The Matua community, with its long-time demand for citizenship rights, have demanded implementation of the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) for decades. The CAA holds special significance to the Matua community in Bengal, and will work as a vote swinger in Matua belts of Bengal as CAA is implemented in March 2024.

"CAA will help all refugees in all states, not only Matuas in Bongaon and it will reflect in the coming polls in all districts," Matua Mahasangh leader and Bongaon MP Santanu Thakur said. "I will urge this is a security and kavach for our Matua future generations."Minister of States (MoS) under Union Ministry Home Affairs Nisith Pramanik said the CAA is to give citizenship and not take away.

West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee said though "the law was passed in 2020, its implementation before the election announcement shows that it is being done for political reasons."

"CAA will not take citizenship of a single person. It has been prepared for implementation on the ground level. The people, who have lost their citizenship due to religious persecution and got cheated and come to our country, will be benefitted through this. This law is to give citizenship to people and it will not take citizenship," Pramanik assured today in Bengal.
Celebrations galore in Matua belts
"It is a time of happiness for us. We were waiting for the CAA," said a Matua community member in Thakurbari area in Bongaon.

"Prime Minister and Union Home Minister has assured us CAA. CAA is like another independence to us," Shantanu Thakur said.
"This is a great gift for us today. I am very happy...Our CAA was a long cherished dream. PM Narendra Modi Hindu, Budddhist and Christians from other side This is a time of festival for us, " another Matua from Bongaon said..

Matua community also started celebrations in Siliguri. "I cannot express our happiness in words. We have been target of political game for long. Our next generation will be living in India safely and they will be secured," said another Matua community representative. Matuas have hit the roads with drums and other musical instruments.

PM and Matua gamechanger
Prime Minister Narendra Modi's visited Matua Thakurbari temple in Bangladesh’s Orakandi on March 27, 2021. He has visited Matua Thakurbari in ahead of 2019 Lok Sabha polls and met Matua matriarch Boroma. He had promised CAA during his first rally in Thakurnagar.
In a rally in Bongaon, Union Home Minister Amit Shah promised implementation of CAA ahead of 2021 assembly polls. CAA implementation now is set to change the Matua poll calculation in Bengal in coming Lok Sabha polls.

Matuas had migrated to West Bengal after Partition of Bengal. They are wooed by all political parties-BJP, TMC and Left Front.

Trinamool Rajya Sabha MP Elect Mamatabala Thakur, who is also from Matua Maha Sangh family, however, said "If this is implemented, we will discuss on it in details with our community members. BJP knows Matuas are removed from us. So they want vote for the Matuas and thus introduced. Once they fill the form, our people will lose their existing status. We are all citizens of this country."
