Religious fight is the last weapon left for BJP: SP hits out at BJP over Budaun double murder case

The Samajwadi Party on Wednesday hit out at Uttar Pradesh government over Budaun double murder accusing BJP of carrying such incidents to create religious disputes among people.

"BJP wants to win elections by creating riots and communal tension in UP and that is why it is itself carrying out such incidents and creating communal tension in the districts, the result of which is today's incident in Badaun," Samajwadi Party said in a post on X.

"When BJP has lost on the real issues of the people, then religious dispute, religious fight is the last weapon left for BJP. At the behest of BJP, many goons and miscreants are roaming freely and are committing such incidents due to which fights are increasing in the society," it added.

Criticizing the Yogi government over the prevailing law and order in the state, SP leader Ashutosh Verma Patel said, "Despite the Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath's assurance that perpetrators will face consequences, such incidents continue to occur in the state. This raises serious doubts about law enforcement."

"The whole agenda of the BJP is to create the fight between Hindu and Muslims and then win the elections. The 'Brahmastra' of the BJP is to create differences between two communities to play out their politics," he further said.

Meanwhile, heavy police security was deployed at the Baba colony located near the Mandi Samiti outpost in Budaun as locals protested against the ghastly double-murder.

Earlier, speaking to ANI, SSP Budaun Alok Priyadarshi said that the deceased's family has named the accused's brother also who is on the run.

"The accused Sajid entered the house yesterday at around 7:30 pm and went to the terrace where the children were playing. He attacked the two children and murdered them. He then came down where the crowd tried to hold him back but he escaped. Police teams swung into action when they got to know that the accused had escaped. The accused fired at the police and was killed in retaliatory fire. The murder weapon and the revolver have been recovered. In the FIR, the family of the deceased children has also named the brother, Javed of the accused. Teams are working to find him and he will be arrested soon. According to the family, the accused had demanded Rs 5,000 from the father of the deceased children," he said.

Two children were hacked to death on Tuesday in Badaun's Baba Colony. Following this, one of the accused involved in the incident was killed in an encounter with the police.

