ET Now GBS 2024: Wait for bigger decisions in the third-term, says PM Modi as he declares intent for third-term

While addressing the ET Now Global Business Summit 2024, Prime Minister Narendra Modi declared his intentions for third term after the Lok Sabha elections by hinting at bigger decisions that will be taken for the country to help India grow at super speed.

"Wait for bigger decisions in the third-term. I'm already working on a roadmap that will be completed soon," said PM Modi at the ET NOW Global Business Summit.

'India's time':
PM Modi while addressing the summit said that this is India's time amid talk of disruption, development and diversification and the world's faith in India is continuously growing.

"There comes a time in the development journey of any country when all the circumstances are in its favour. This is the time when that country makes itself strong for many centuries to come. That's the time I see for India today," said PM Modi.

" This time period is indeed unprecedented...this is the time when our growth rate is continuously increasing and fiscal deficit is reducing. This is the time when our exports are increasing and the current account deficit is reducing...inflation is in control. This is the time when opportunities and income both are increasing, and poverty is reducing..." said PM Modi.

'Common people our priority':
While addressing the summit, PM Modi shared that his government prioritises the lives of the common people of the country.

"We are a welfare state and our priority is to make lives of common people better," PM Modi at ET Now Global Business Summit. He added that taxpayers' money is valued by his government as they completed big projects like the Parliament building in record time.

White Paper:
The White Paper, comparing 10 years of economic management of the Congress-led UPA government with that of the Modi government, was tabled in Parliament on Thursday by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman.

"It would have suited me politically to bring White Paper on Economy in 2014, but it could have hit confidence in India," said PM Modi. He added that he preferred 'rashtraneeti' over 'rajneeti.'

"We did it now as it's necessary to tell public the truth," said PM Modi.