'Modi ka Parivaar': BJP leaders including Amit Shah, JP Nadda change social media profile names after Lalu's jibe

Union Home Minister Amit Shah, BJP president JP Nadda and other party leaders have added 'Modi ka Parivar' in their social media profile name, extending their support to Prime Minister Narendra Modi.

The move comes a day after RJD leader Lalu Prasad Yadav attacked PM Modi saying that "Prime Minister Narendra Modi is not a Hindu as he did not shave his head after his mother's death."

Yadav, while addressing the party's 'Jan Vishwas Maha Rally' in Patna, had said that PM Modi just spreads hatred in the name of religion.

"These days he is talking about dynastic politics. You (PM Modi) don't have a family. You are not even a Hindu. When your mother died, every Hindu, as per tradition, shaves his beard and head. Why did you not shave? You only spread hatred in society," he had said.

Senior party leaders like Piyush Goyal, Nitin Gadkari and Shivraj Singh Chouhan also changed their profile names on X (formerly Twitter).

Mera Bharat, mera parivaar': PM Modi
PM Modi on Monday asserted that 140 crore Indians are "my family" and attacked the "dynasty parties", saying that they may have different faces, but "jhoot and loot" was their common character. Modi's comments came a day after RJD supremo Lalu Prasad at a rally of the grand alliance in Patna said, "What can we do if Narendra Modi does not have a family of his own? He keeps bragging about the Ram temple. He is not even a true Hindu. In Hindu tradition, a son must shave his head and beard upon the demise of his parents. Modi did not do so when his mother died".

Hitting back at the opposition parties, Modi reiterated that his commitment was to the people of the country and that he had left home at a young age with the dream of serving the people.

Addressing a well-attended public rally in this district, the Prime Minister also said he had dedicated himself to public welfare as a "sevak".

Countering the opposition's point that he had no family, the PM said "140 crore people of this country are my family. Mera Bharat mera parivaar hai(my India is my family). My life is like an open book. People of the country know about it."

"When I left home in my childhood, I left with a dream that I will live for the countrymen," he said.

Following Modi's assertion at Adilabad rally, BJP president J P Nadda and senior party leaders, including ministers Rajnath Singh, Amit Shah, Nitin Gadkari, Nirmala Sithraman and Anurag Thakur added 'Modi Ka Parivar' to their social media profiles.

Further, attacking "dynasty parties," in the country, the Prime Minister said: "The face of dynasty parties may be different but they have a similar character--jhoot and loot (lies and loot)".

Modi said that while "TRS became BRS," it did not change anything and now the Congress was in power in the state, but "nothing is going to happen".

He alleged that BRS did 'scams' like the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project during its tenure and charged the ruling Congress with "sitting on files instead of taking action."

BJP extends support to PM Modi
Bihar Deputy Chief Minister Vijay Kumar Sinha had on Sunday criticised RJD president Lalu Prasad's remarks deeming them offensive and disrespectful to Sanatan Dharma. He said that such behaviour from RJD leaders, including Prasad, reflects their unserious approach to politics and attempts to undermine the centuries-old tradition of Sanatan Dharma.

"The language used by Prasad, who himself is convicted in corruption cases, against our PM shows his mindset…they (RJD) are against Sanatan Dharma and are trying to destroy the centuries-old tradition," he said.

Sinha defended Prime Minister Modi, highlighting his contributions to Sanatan Dharma and condemning Prasad's statements.

"They (RJD leaders, including Lalu Prasad) behave like political jokers. We must stop such forces. It's a well-known fact that what our PM has done for Sanatan Dharma", Sinha told reporters.

Launching a frontal attack on the PM on his recent comments on dynastic politics, the RJD supremo while addressing workers of the grand alliance at Jan Vishwas Maha Rally on Sunday, said, "What can we do if Narendra Modi does not have a family of his own? He keeps bragging about the Ram temple. He is not even a true Hindu. In Hindu tradition, a son must shave his head and beard upon the demise of his parents. Modi did not do so when his mother died".

Regarding RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav's comments about the deputy chief ministers of Bihar, Sinha labeled the RJD as a party of gimmicks and expressed confidence that the people of the state would not accept such behaviour.

He emphasised the need for leadership that can deliver results for Bihar and criticised Tejashwi's remarks as indicative of desperation.
