China will be in Modi's crosshairs if he wins a third term

As most analysts expect Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to perform a hat-trick in the upcoming Lok Sabha elections, the party and its leaders are increasingly talking of their plans for the third term. Prime Minister Narendra Modi has spoken several times in the recent past how his party will form the government and what all it would do. While such statements before polls are considered a rhetorical ploy by a party to present the inevitability of its victory in order to swing the undecided voters, PM Modi has outlined the agenda of his next government.

In the last formal meeting of the Union Council of Ministers on Sunday before the upcoming Lok Sabha elections, Modi chaired a brainstorming session on the vision document for 'Viksit Bharat (Developed India) 2047'. A 100-day agenda for immediate steps for quick implementation of policies after formation of the new government in May 2024 was also discussed. It signalled the government's confidence in its poll prospects as well as the eagerness to fast-forward policies that take benefit of the prevailing favourable factors.

"Wait for bigger decisions in the third-term. I'm already working on a roadmap that will be completed soon," Modi said at the ET NOW Global Business Summit last week. "There comes a time in the development journey of any country when all the circumstances are in its favour. This is the time when that country makes itself strong for many centuries to come. That's the time I see for India today," said Modi.

What to expect from Modi in his third term

Arvind Virmani, a member of the government’s policy-making agency Niti Aayog, outlined the agenda of the Modi government if it comes back in power for the third term in an interview on Friday, news agency Bloomberg has reported. From his statements, it's obvious that Modi is not only aiming to make India the world's third biggest economy during his third term but also a more competitive rival to China.

The government would boost manufacturing in India, potentially increasing the country’s control on supply chains and creating jobs, Virmani said. The government would target the export-oriented sectors that face high import duties which hurt their competitiveness, he said. A Modi government would also focus on lowering trade barriers and improving output-linked incentive plans, he said, adding that the finance ministry is identifying sectors where duties can be reduced.

Earlier this year, India reduced tariffs on several mobile-device components to boost production and make exports competitive. Industries including textiles, leather, and engineering goods have all made the case for lower import duties.

Taking benefit of the West's distrust of China
The pandemic and geopolitical factors have forced the Western world to move supply chains away from China which has been their factory for a long time, supplying a large number of manufactured goods. Analysts believe this is India's time to take benefit of global alienation from China and emerge as a manufacturing power. The possible agenda of the Modi government in its third term outlined by Virmani indicates doubling down on growth of domestic manufacturing and merchandise exports.

The Modi government has already initiated the plans to take advantage of the Western world's reducing reliance on China. The government has launched hefty Production-Linked Incentives (PLI) schemes for more than a dozen different sectors to boost its Make in India project as well as promote exports. PLIs for domestic manufacturing of Apple iPhones, other electronic goods and semiconductor chips are the showpieces of Modi's project to make India a manufacturing power. India houses Samsung Electronics Co.’s biggest mobile phone factory, while Apple Inc. makes at least 7% of all its iPhones in India through its contract manufacturer Foxconn Technology Group and Pegatron Corp.

The impact of Modi's manufacturing and exports push has already started showing. India has begun chipping away at China’s dominance in electronics exports in some key markets as manufacturers diversify supply chains away from the world’s factory to other parts of Asia, a new study shows. The impact is most pronounced in the UK and US, where geopolitical tensions with China have increased in recent years, Bloomberg has reported.

India’s electronics exports to the US as a ratio of China’s increased to 7.65% in November last year from 2.51% in November 2021, according to London-based Fathom Financial Consulting. In the UK, the share rose to 10% from 4.79%.

However, India’s progress in gaining market share has been more limited in Europe and Japan, “suggesting a move towards dual supply chains (China plus one) rather than a complete abandonment of China-based production, at least for now,” Andrew Harris, an economist at Fathom Financial Consulting, wrote in a note. The report shows that India’s electronics exports as a ratio of China’s was 3.38% in Germany and 3.52% globally.

Last month, the Secretary of MeitY, S Krishnan, said that the government was looking at launching a component-linked incentive scheme to make the country a “product nation”. Based on the success of the PLI scheme for electronics, he said the government wanted manufacturers to also start designing products in the country.

While the government targets to increase exports, a rise in exports also makes imports higher simply because the value addition that happens in the country is still limited, and a significant portion is imported, assembled and then re-exported or used for domestic consumption, Krishnan said. “Clearly, increasing value addition in the sector is key and thereby the need for increasing the share of electronic component production in India. These are MeitY’s next goals, riding on the success of the large-scale electronics PLI which is the most successful PLI programme that the government has run in recent times."

To achieve the ambitious dream of a $5 trillion economy, the government has set a target of $300 billion in electronics production, including $100 billion in exports, by providing manufacturers with various incentives. With a huge 22% boost in electronic exports in FY24 which breached the $20 billion mark, the government believes the target of achieving $100 billion exports in the coming few years is possible. Electronics exports were at $7.6 billion in 2013-14 and $22.7 billion in 2022-23, as per the White Paper issued by the government recently.

The government's efforts to emerge as a rival to China in manufacturing, especially electronic goods, have started well in the current term. The next term is expected to boost these efforts further. A new frontier for the government is semiconductors. Last week, the Cabinet approved proposals to set up three semiconductor plants, including a mega fab by Tata Group, at a cumulative investment of Rs 1.26 lakh crore, to position India as an international powerhouse in chip manufacturing. Micron is already building another chip plant in Gujarat.

India will, in next five years, join the high-stake global stage of semiconductor manufacturing as it combines unparalleled design capabilities with $10 billion of incentives to draw manufacturers to set up new fabs and units that will cut dominance of Taiwan, South Korea and China, said IT and Telecom Minister Ashwini Vaishnaw.

In its possible third term, expect the Modi government to double down on its manufacturing and exports agenda to take advantage of China's decline as the western world's favourite destination for investment and supply chains.
