Congress's Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury questions Govt's China policy; Rajnath Singh retorts

The Lok Sabha on Monday discussed the motion of thanks on the President's address, with the Opposition questioning the government's policies.

Leader of Congress in the Lok Sabha, Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury, questioned the defence minister for the situation in Ladakh and claimed that vast areas of the Union territory had been occupied by the Chinese forces. "China is emboldened today and the Modi government has failed in its China's policy. Not even a word on security concerns was mentioned in the President's address. I want to ask our defence minister to please tell us what is the situation in Ladakh. You said the status will be restored. Day-by-day situation of Ladakh is worsening. An area of 2,000 square kilometer is being occupied. Today, the shepherds are unable to go there. Why are you sitting silent? From Arunachal to Ladakh, the situation is worsening," he said.

He also questioned the government's reluctance to explain what happened in Galwan. "When the Galwan incident took place, you gave the certificate that no one entered our place. From 2014 till now, your government has failed on the China policy," said Chowdhury.

Chowdhury also raised the issues of Maldives. But defence minister Rajnath Singh immediately intervened and expressed disagreement over the Congress leader's comments pertaining to the Line of Actual Control. "As Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury took my name, I express my disagreement with whatever he said in connection with China and LAC. I condemn this," said Singh. The defence minister further assured the House that India is not weak anymore. India has emerged as a strong country, Singh said.

Earlier, Samajwadi Party MP ST Hasan questioned the government's policies and said: "They are excluding 20 crore Muslims in India. We have never won so many medals in international sporting events. I agree with this. But what happened to the India which we all fought together for? I see an India where suddenly someone has a problem with namaz or azaan... How did this happen," asked Hasan.

In his last speech in the Lok Sabha, TDP MP Jayadev Galla put up a spirited defence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi's policies and said: "I compliment the prime minister for finally consecrating Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, the entire country is greatly indebted to him. I plan to visit the temple one day, as it realises the 500-year-old dream of Hindus... Not just this, this new Parliament building imbued with the fragrance of Ek Bharat, Shreshtha Bharat is one more testimony to our civilisation and culture."