2024 Lok Sabha elections: India's roll call of democracy

A day before the 17th Lok Sabha had its last sitting amidst parting speeches, India's list of electors that will choose the 18th Lok Sabha was announced. It could be coincidental but has a meaning at the depth, if not as dramatic as the dumping of the electoral bonds. Special Summary Revision (SSR 2024) has thrown up a new electoral roll of 968.8 million registered voters whose choice will be unleashed in the impending summer.

The number is more than the population of Europe, and of the continents of North and South America put together. This multitude of ordinary citizens, above the age of 18, armed with suffrage gifted by the Constitution, will decide the government for next five years. There were 911 million electors in the 2019 elections and 834 million in 2014. In the first election in 1951, the electorate was only 173 million, but still made it the largest election at that time.

Roll Matters

A pure and inclusive electoral roll creates the foundation of fair and credible election, and by extension of democracy. Article 324 of the Constitution vests in the Election Commission , "the superintendence, direction and control of the preparation of the electoral rolls". Simply put, every eligible citizen should be on the electoral roll. Conducting the roll revision in the most transparent manner is the hallmark of efficiency of electoral officers and an inescapable need.

Preparation and maintenance of electoral roll and its continuous fitness in the custody of the EC has been the envy of election management bodies across the world. Back home, State Election Commissions, while holding their mandated local bodies elections, feel attracted towards the robust electoral rolls meant for parliament and state assemblies. One of the arguments put forward by supporters of 'One Nation, One Election' is common and efficient electoral roll.

Working through Doorsteps

SSR was ordered on May 29 last year with January 1, 2024 as the cut-off date. The final roll was published after rigorous work by hundreds of thousands of field officials. Ensuring authenticity requires checks and supervision at various levels, an assured process of appeal and redressal, and keeping political parties in the loop. Proactively inviting claims and objections and their disposal in a transparent manner are key factors.

In development of an accurate electoral roll and its dissemination, EC has increasingly harnessed digital technology. The booth-level officer (BLO), uniquely connected with the polling station area, anchors the house-to-house verification. They are the foot soldiers of Indian democracy.

Overall elector-population (EP) ratio of 66.76% achieved in the final electoral roll is a healthy indicator. Citizens can still get themselves enrolled till the last date of nomination for elections. Over 460 million of the vast electorate are from the five states of Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, Bihar, Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu, accounting for 249 seats of Lok Sabha. Uttar Pradesh alone has an electorate of more than 150 million. Roll revision in Assam and Jammu & Kashmir was a particularly sensitive exercise as it followed delimitation of constituencies.

Wholesome Inclusion

Targeted drives by EC have seen significant enrolment among women, youth, tribal groups and people with disabilities. Increase in gender ratio from 928 to 948 between the two Lok Sabha elections reaffirms the saga of rising women's stake in Indian elections. In the latest revision, enrolment of women has been 15% higher than men. The electoral roll has 19 million electors in the 18-19 age group, newly qualified to vote. Another 197 million are in the 20-29 age group, making the overall youth segment as high as 22-23% of the electorate. Political parties are ever watchful about these number dynamics and finding ways to smartly connect.

The electoral roll carries significant pointers to inclusion and social sensitivity. It has 18 million voters over 80 years and 238,000 centenarians. Over 48,000 electors are from the third gender. There is 100% registration of the Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Groups. Election managers have marked 8.85 million voters as persons with disabilities to extend them special facilitation. Equally important has been the removal of over 16 million names of deceased, permanently shifted and duplicate electors, with due caution against any wrongful deletion

Catering to Scale

The staggering scale of Indian voters necessitates commensurate levels polling wherewithal. Against 1.037 million polling stations in 2019 spread over 3.2 million sq km of territory, there are about 1.2 million booths this time around. Deployment of polling staff could jump from 12 million to 15 million, that is more than the electorate of several countries.
