Rahul Gandhi-led Bharat Jodo Nyay Yatra reaches Gujarat

Amid a steady outflow of Congress leaders and workers towards the ruling BJP, Rahul Gandhi’s Nyay Yatra entered Gujarat on Thursday from Rajasthan.
The 6,700-km 'Manipur to Mumbai' yatra will pass through seven tribal-dominated districts of Gujarat, before entering Maharashtra for its culmination.

Rahul’s entry to Gujarat comes less than 24 hours after its MLA from Manavadar Arvind Ladani resigned from Congress to join the BJP.

Interestingly, Gandhi’s yatra will primarily focus on the tribal areas of central and south Gujarat at a time when the BJP has been extensively focusing on consolidating the voter base in the region. This is also evident from the fact that the forthcoming Lok Sabha polls will see an interesting contest in Bharuch constituency where BJP’s six term Lok Sabha MP Mansukh Vasava will take on AAP’s Dediapada MLA Chaitar Vasava who has started gaining some support among the voters.

In his first address in Jhalod, Gandhi underlined the absence of India’s President Draupadi Murmu in the recent consecration ceremony of Ram Mandir and said that she was not allowed in the ceremony as she is a tribal.

He further insisted on implementation of caste census and lashed out at the Centre for not implementing the same. He claimed that while unemployment, inflation continue to be the biggest issues confronting the country, they hardly find a mention in the political discourse of the BJP.

He also lashed out at the BJP-led government over the implementation of Agniveer scheme and questioned how someone recruited under Agniveer would effectively carry out his duties keeping in mind the difference in status between a regular soldier and someone recruited under Agniveer scheme. He alleged that the government is trying to spend the money saved by recruiting Agniveers by procuring weapons and in the process benefit the crony capitalists.

Apart from the top brass of state congress, INDIA partner AAP state president Gopal Italia and Ishudan Gadavi also shared dais with Gandhi. The yatra will travel across Gujarat for four days and enter Maharashtra through Nandrurbar on Sunday.
