'Chronology samajhiye': How the opposition parties reacted to CAA notification

Opposition parties today criticised the timing of notification of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA-2019). Slamming the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), many opposition leaders said the CAA has been notified to polarise the upcoming general elections.

Congress Rajya Sabha MP Jairam Ramesh in a post on X said, "It has taken four years and three months for the Modi Government to notify the rules for the Citizenship Amendment Act that was passed by the Parliament in December 2019. The Prime Minister claims that his Government works in a business-like and time-bound manner. The time taken to notify the rules for the CAA is yet another demonstration of the Prime Minister's blatant lies."

"After seeking nine extensions for the notification of the rules, the timing right before the elections is evidently designed to polarise the elections, especially in West Bengal and Assam. It also appears to be an attempt to manage the headlines after the Supreme Court's severe strictures on the Electoral Bonds Scandal," Ramesh further said in his post.

West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has claimed that this move is just publicity by the BJP for the elections. "Let me see the rules first. The notification has not been issued yet. If people are deprived of their rights under the rules, then we will fight against it. This is BJP's publicity for elections, it is nothing else" Mamata Banerjee said.

AIMIM chief Asaduddin Owaisi warned that the move will force many to again take to the streets to protest.
"Aap chronology samajhiye, pehle election season aayega phir CAA rules aayenge. Our objections to CAA remain the same. CAA is divisive & based on Godse’s thought that wanted to reduce Muslims to second-class citizens. Give asylum to anyone who is persecuted but citizenship must not be based on religion or nationality. The govt should explain why it kept these rules pending for five years & why it’s implementing it now. Along with NPR-NRC, CAA is meant to only target Muslims, it serves no other purpose. Indians who came out on the streets to oppose CAA NPR NRC will have no choice but to oppose it again," Owaisi said in a tweet.

Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan described the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) as a law that creates division along communal lines and affirmed that it will not be put into effect in the southern state. "The government has repeatedly stated that the Citizenship Amendment Act, which treats Muslim minorities as second-class citizens, will not be implemented in Kerala. That remains the position. All of Kerala will stand united in opposing this communally divisive law," Vijayan said in a statement.

Reacting to the notification, DMK MP Tiruchi N Siva said, "Today, they have notified along with the rules. The surprise is that this bill was passed in Parliament in 2019, though it appears to be very generous in giving citizenship to those who are persecuted by other nations but it is totally partial by way of leaving Muslims from that list. In the Parliament, I opposed it and on behalf of DMK, I gave an amendment."

CPI's D. Raja also slammed BJP for notifying CAA just before the elections. Raja said, "BJP-RSS links citizenship with religion and our Constitution doesn't make religion as the criteria for citizenship... Now on the eve of elections, why suddenly this government has decided to implement CAA? The rules are being framed to divide the people, create tension among the people at the time of elections."

Meanwhile Shiv Sena (UBT) said that the CAA law has been brought by the BJP just to "win the elections". Spokesperson Anand Dubey said, "We are sitting in March 2024, if you wanted to bring a law, you had 10 years, you could have brought the law, now when the code of conduct will be imposed in 2-4 days, then you are bringing the law…Today you have implemented the Citizenship Amendment Act CAA, what will happen from this? There are elections ahead, that's why you are doing all these things, just to spread the atmosphere of anarchy in this country, to win the elections..."

The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) on Monday announced that it would be notifying, the Rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019 (CAA-2019).

These rules, called the Citizenship (Amendment) Rules, 2024 will enable the persons eligible under CAA-2019 to apply for grant of Indian citizenship. The Home Ministry said that the applications for such persons would be submitted in a completely online mode for which a web portal has been provided.

The CAA rules, aims to confer Indian citizenship to persecuted non-Muslim migrants - including Hindus, Sikhs, Jains, Buddhists, Parsis, and Christians - who migrated from Bangladesh, Pakistan, and Afghanistan and arrived in India before December 31, 2014.

As per the Ministry of Home Affairs' annual report for 2021-22, between April 1, 2021, and December 31, 2021, a cumulative count of 1,414 individuals from non-Muslim minority communities originating from Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan were granted Indian citizenship through registration or naturalization under the Citizenship Act, 1955.

Under the Citizenship Act of 1955, Indian citizenship by registration or naturalization is granted to non-Muslim minorities from Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Afghanistan in nine states such as Gujarat, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Punjab, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, and Maharashtra.
