Ahead of Lok Sabha polls, Mayawati's BSP in disarray

Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) MP Ritesh Pandey jumping ship to join the BJP has brought to fore the current trend of MPs of the Mayawati-led party planning to switch over to other parties in search of greener pastures ahead of the Lok Sabha polls. Many believe that with BSP's reluctance to join the INDIA bloc, coupled with supremo Mayawati's prolonged political inactiveness, are the key reasons why MPs are jumping ship.

Pandey joined the BJP at the party headquarters in Delhi in the presence of Uttar Pradesh Deputy Chief Minister Brajesh Pathak, BJP state president Bhupendra Chaudhary and party's in-charge for Uttar Pradesh Baijayant Panda. Infact, in his resignation letter to Mayawati, Pandey said that it has been a long time since he had been called to attend party meetings and has also not been able to establish any kind of a dialogue with the leadership, despite him trying to meet Mayawati and other senior leaders.

This seems to be the sentiment echoed by many of the BSP MPs.

With Pandey joining the BJP, a total of four out of ten Lok Sabha MPs of BSP have either switched sides or made it clear that they plan to do so. Two more MPs are also likely to switch sides and one of them from Western Uttar Pradesh is in touch with Rashtriya Lok Dal, as his seat may go to the Jayant Chaudhary-led party as part of seating arrangement with BJP.

Similarly, BSP MP Sangeeta Azad may also join the BJP. In the recently-concluded budget session of Parliament, she along with her husband, were seen outside home minister Amit Shah's office.

Earlier this month, the SP had announced Afzal Ansari, BSP MP from Ghazipur, as its candidate from the seat for the LS polls.

Danish Ali, BSP MP from Amroha, had been suspended last year by Mayawati for speaking in favour of TMC MP Mahua Moitra in the cash-for-query case. Ali had already voiced his opinion on earlier occasions that the opposition needs to unite for the 2024 polls, and after being seen participating in the Congress' Bharat Jodo Nyaya Yatra on Saturday, is tipped to join the grand old party.

Similarly, BSP MP from Jaunpur, Shyam Singh Yadav, too joined the yatra in Agra on Sunday. Earlier, Yadav was seen joining the SP celebrations of its patriarch Mulayam Singh Yadav's birthday. Many of those from Uttar Pradesh who are looking to join the BJP are in touch with party general secretary Sunil Bansal.

The BSP had won 10 seats in the 2019 general elections owing partly to its tie-up with SP, a significant gain from drawing a blank in the 2014 polls.

Taking cognisance of the developments, Mayawati on Sunday sought to imply that the MPs "straying" to different parties, were unlikely to get tickets considering they have not worked for their respective areas and it is inappropriate for the media to project this as the BSP's weakness.

When contacted, BSP floor leader in the Lok Sabha, Girish Chandra, said, "All those who have left and plan to do are doing this for their own self-interest and it wouldn't have any impact on our party". The BSP works under the leadership of Behanji (Mayawati) for the welfare of Bahujansamaj, he added.
