Will lift 50% quota cap, hike minimum wages: Congress

Just before the Election Commission announced the Lok Sabha poll schedule on Saturday, the Congress party made yet another set of pre-poll promises, including legislation to increase the 50% cap on the reservation for the SC, ST and OBC communities.

"The Congress guarantees", announced by party president Mallikarjun Kharge at a Bengaluru press conference, also include an increase in the minimum wage of workers to ₹400 a day and introduction of an urban employment guarantee scheme similar to the existing programme for the rural populace. The party also reiterated its promise to hold a comprehensive socio, economic and caste census if voted to form the government.

Rahul Gandhi posted these party guarantees, named "Hissedari Nyay' (Participatory Justice) and 'Shramik Nyay' (workers' justice) on social media.

"Right to reservation; Congress guarantees that it will pass a Constitutional amendment Bill to increase the reservation limit of 50% for SC, ST and OBC," the Congress leaders said. The Congress Working Committee meeting in Hyderabad last year had promised to lift the cap on reservation.

Through a "comprehensive social, economic and caste census", the party has promised to survey the population and socio-economic condition of all castes and communities, their share in national wealth and representation in the institutions related to governance.

"This affirmative action policy will bring revolutionary changes in the country," it said.

The Congress said the promised minimum wage of Rs 400 a day at the national level will also be applicable under the rural employment guarantee scheme. "The Congress will bring employment guarantee law for urban areas. Under this, public infrastructure will be created, cities will be adapted to the climate and the social service system will be strengthened," it said.

The party also promised health rights for workers, with a provision for state-aided universal healthcare including necessary tests, free treatment, medicines, rehabilitative and palliative care and surgery for workers of the unorganised sector and people suffering from disabilities.
