Modi talks of DMK temple boycott in TN & solar, gold cases in Kerala

Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Friday alleged that the INDIA bloc wanted to assume power only to engage in 'loot and corruption.' He attacked the Congress in Kerala over the solar case of 2013 and the DMK-Congress alliance in Tamil Nadu.

Addressing a BJP rally in Kanyakumari, Modi alleged DMK-Congress have 'history of scams' and the aim behind their efforts to come to power is to 'loot the people.' He underlined that while the Centre has launched several infrastructure development projects in Tamil Nadu and the people benefited from a slew of welfare schemes, the DMK government was 'steeped in corruption.'

Referring to the consecration of Ram temple at Ayodhya on January 22, Modi said the DMK government boycotted it and tried to 'prevent telecast' of the event. Modi said this showed the DMK government had 'no respect' for traditions and culture of India. He said in the run-up to the main event, he had visited several historical temples of Tamil Nadu. Modi also tried to take credit for restarting Jallikattu, though it was done by cultural organisations after the Supreme Court lifted the ban. He alleged that while the DMK-Congress dispensation was 'caught napping' when Sri Lankan authorities arrested some Tamil Nadu fishermen recently, he used diplomatic clout to bring them back safe, overlooking the point that the Centre oversaw external affairs. Referring to the attack on AIADMK leader J Jayalalithaa in the Tamil Nadu assembly several decades ago, Modi said it showed DMK 'did not respect' women.

Later at a BJP rally in Pathanamthitta, Modi claimed that BJP would do well in the Lok Sabha elections in Kerala. Congress leader AK Antony's son Anil is the BJP candidate in Pathanamthitta. BJP is yet to win a Lok Sabha seat from Kerala. Modi alleged that LDF and UDF 'looted the people' whenever they came to power. Incidentally, Antony led the Kerala government in 1977-78, 1995-96 and 2001-2004, and is known for 'honest politics'.

LDF is known for 'looting through the gold scam' while the UDF was involved in 'solar scam,' Modi said. CBI under Modi government had given a clean chit to Oommen Chandy, who was accused in the case.

"In the last 10 years, we have made every effort for every category of people in every area as much as possible. We brought back nurses from Iraq who were stuck in a war. We brought back priests who were stuck amid a crisis. During Corona, Indians were brought back from every part of the world because wherever even one Indian was in trouble, our government stood with them strongly," Modi claimed.
