If you apply for CAA, you will lose citizenship for 5 years: Mamata Banerjee to Matuas
KOLKATA: Claiming she will defeat BJP fighting solo in West Bengal, chief minister Mamata Banerjee said on Sunday in her first Lok Sabha rally in Krishnanagar constituency that she will not allow Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) to be implemented in the state and added that BJP was lying to the Matua community, treating them as a vote bank ahead of Lok Sabha elections.

"I will not allow CAA to be implemented in Bengal. We will not allow anyone to become part of NRC here. They (BJP) lie to the Matua for vote bank politics. Do you want to put yourself into danger? Once you apply, you will lose all your benefits in social schemes. Let all BJP candidates apply for CAA," she said. Banerjee urged the Matua community not to apply for CAA as they will lose their citizenship. "If you apply for CAA, you will lose citizenship for five years," Banerjee warned, adding that CAA will lead to NRC and Matua people will be in trouble.

The promise of implementing CAA was a major electoral plank for BJP in the last Lok Sabha and assembly polls in West Bengal. The community, with more than one crore voters in the state, is spread over Nadia, Cooch Behar, North and South 24 Parganas districts bordering Bangladesh.

The Trinamool Supremo went on to say she always cared about the Matua community and when Boroma, the matriarch of the Matua community, was alive, she bore all the expenses of Boroma's treatment.

She accused INDIA bloc partners CPI(M) and Congress of "joining hands with BJP" in West Bengal and asserted that the Opposition alliance has "ceased to exist" in the state.

The Trinamool Congress supremo urged people not to cast their votes in favour of the Left-Congress-ISF alliance in West Bengal as "voting for them would mean voting for BJP".

Banerjee stood by expelled party MP Mahua Moitra and said Moitra was being harassed by ED and CBI as she had raised strong voice against BJP in the Centre. "ED-CBI raj now in Bengal... they are harassing our candidates and leaders, including innocent parents of Moitra," Banerjee said, hinting at the recent raids by CBI at Moitra's residence in Kolkata.

"If you have confidence to win 400 plus seats then why do you need ED, CBI, IT? Why has Mahua been tortured? Around 15 vote managers were arrested by NIA. Why was notice sent to our party workers? After election starts, this cannot be done," she said.
