Revanth Reddy says PM Modi is my 'Bade Bhai', seeks his support to grow Telangana like Gujarat

Chief Minister A Revanth Reddy, on Monday, referred to Prime Minister Narendra Modi as 'big brother' and sought his blessings and support for the development of the state and its people. He emphasized the need for Telangana to contribute to the center's vision of achieving the 5 trillion economy goal.

Sharing the dais with the PM at a public meeting in Adilabad, CM Revanth urged him to continue supporting Telangana's development, akin to the development of Gujarat state.

'Your role as the country’s Prime Minister is like a ‘big brother’ and only with the help of the big brother can the Chief Ministers of all states take their states forward in terms of progress and development,' Revanth said in his speech delivered partly in Hindi, Telugu, and English in an attempt to convey it to PM Modi and the people of the state.

Revanth stressed that the state government is not interested in any rift with the center but aims to maintain cordial center-state relations to enhance the state’s prospects. He mentioned that confrontation should be limited to electoral politics, and after elections, states require the center's support.

'We went and met PM Narendra Modi immediately after the Congress formed the government in Telangana and sought the center's help. I thank the PM for his role in giving approval for the construction of elevated skyways on 195 acres of defense land and permission for a textile college. We need the continuing support of the center, and we are ready to consult the center for the development of Telangana. We also warmly welcome and thank PM Modi on behalf of the people of Telangana for launching projects and laying foundation stones for various development works, including national highways, railway lines, among others, which will add to the development of the state,' he said.

''CM Revanth said if the PM can put in a word to the Maharashtra state government to give 1850 acres of land for which the Telangana government will pay the compensation, an irrigation project can be constructed at Tummadihatti and give water to 1.50 lakh acres of drought-prone Adilabad district and tribals who live here. We came here and received you to seek your blessings and support for Telangana and its people,' Revanth concluded.

PM Narendra Modi laid the foundation stones for several development projects worth thousands of crores of rupees in Telangana's Adilabad on Monday.
