Assam BJP’s first minority MLA Aminul Haque Laskar resigns from primary party membership

Assam BJP’s first minority MLA Aminul Haque Laskar has resigned from the BJP's primary membership. Laskar joined Congress on Wednesday.

Laskar was former Deputy speaker of the Assam Legislative Assembly. He alleged that the party has lost its political ideology. He was the only MLA from Muslim minority community between 2016-2021.

In 2021 he lost to AIUDF’s Karim Uddin Barbhuiya. Laskar, who is currently the chairperson of the Assam State Commission for Minorities, said, "Back in 2011, when we joined the BJP, it had a certain ideology, but today it is playing communal cards much like the AIUDF. Today we see legislators from the AIUDF campaign for the BJP's Silchar Lok Sabha seat candidate, which is unacceptable."

Laskar said that both the BJP and AGP are two sides of the same coin and people of Sonai area want him to stay away from such parties. He assured that he would continue to work for the development of the people in his constituency.

Days after handing over his resignation, Congress leader Abdul Khaleque met with senior party leader Sonia Gandhi and party president Mallikarjun Kharge and decided to withdraw his resignation.

Khaleque said, "I had a discussion with Madam Sonia Gandhi and other party leaders, and I have full confidence and trust in them. They further assured me that they would look into my concerns "I am glad that the centre leadership of the party reached out to me because of which I could have a fruitful discussion with K C Venugopal ji, GSO and later had the blessings of our Honourable CPP Chairperson, Smt. Sonia Gandhi.” Strengthening Congress is the need of hour; hence I withdraw my resignation and wish to work under your and Rahul Gandhi’s able leadership,” Khaleque stated in a letter addressed to Kharge.

Khaleque tendered his resignation from the primary membership of the Congress party on March 15, citing the flaws in the party leaders of the Assam unit.

